Correction: Network Topology Analysis of Post-Mortem Brain Microarrays Identifies More Alzheimer's Related Genes and MicroRNAs and Points to Novel Routes for Fighting with the Disease		2016	26959978		
Failed reinnervation in aging skeletal muscle	S. Aare, et al.	2016	27588166	BACKGROUND: Skeletal muscle displays a marked accumulation of denervated myofibers at advanced age, which coincides with an acceleration of muscle atrophy. METHODS: In this study, we evaluated the hypothesis that the accumulation of denervated myofibers in advanced age is due to failed reinnervation by examining muscle from young adult (YA) and very old (VO) rats and from a murine model of sporadic denervation secondary to neurotrypsin over-expression (Sarco mouse). RESULTS: Both aging rat muscle and Sarco mouse muscle exhibited marked fiber-type grouping, consistent with repeating cycles of denervation and reinnervation, yet in VO muscle, rapsyn at the endplate increased and was associated with only a 10 % decline in acetylcholine receptor (AChR) intensity, whereas in Sarco mice, there was a decline in rapsyn and a 25 % decrease in AChR intensity. Transcripts of muscle-specific kinase (21-fold), acetylcholine receptor subunits alpha (68-fold), epsilon (threefold) and gamma (47-fold), neural cell adhesion molecule (66-fold), and runt-related transcription factor 1 (33-fold) were upregulated in VO muscle of the rat, consistent with the marked persistent denervation evidenced by a large proportion of very small fibers (>20 %). In the Sarco mice, there were much smaller increases in denervation transcripts (0-3.5-fold) and accumulation of very small fibers (2-6 %) compared to the VO rat, suggesting a reduced capacity for reinnervation in aging muscle. Despite the marked persistent denervation in the VO rat muscle, transcripts of neurotrophins involved in promoting axonal sprouting following denervation exhibited no increase, and several miRNAs predicted to suppress neurotrophins were elevated in VO rat. CONCLUSIONS: Our results support the hypothesis that the accumulation of denervated fibers with aging is due to failed reinnervation and that this may be affected by a limited neurotrophin response that mediates axonal sprouting following denervation.	Aging;Denervation;MicroRNA;Muscle atrophy;Neurotrophins;Reinnervation;Sarcopenia;Skeletal muscle
Cardioprotective microRNAs	M. Abdellatif	2011	21243487	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in almost every aspect of a mammalian cell's functionality, from stem cell differentiation to aging and pathogenesis; however, their role in immediate cell signaling is less defined. This has been recently demonstrated by the rapid increase or decrease of miR-21's abundance within minutes of activation or inhibition of the v-akt murine thymoma viral oncogene homolog 1 (AKT) pathway, respectively, which mediates its regulation of Fas ligand and phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome 10 expression, among other targets. Conversely, AKT induces rapid downregulation of miR-199a-5p to effect upregulation of hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha and sirtuin 1. This suggests that posttranscriptional mechanisms regulate miRNAs' processing and/or stability to induce the rapid fluctuation in their levels. In support, a growing number of studies are showing specific posttranscriptional regulation of miRNAs. The data potentially explain how AKT, and plausibly other signaling pathways, can specifically and promptly modulate a gene's translation while circumventing the need for transcription during transient signaling events.	Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Hypoxia/ metabolism;Hypoxia-Inducible Factor 1, alpha Subunit/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt;Signal Transduction;Sirtuin 1/genetics/metabolism
miR-375 inhibits differentiation of neurites by lowering HuD levels	K. Abdelmohsen, et al.	2010	20584986	Neuronal development and plasticity are maintained by tightly regulated gene expression programs. Here, we report that the developmentally regulated microRNA miR-375 affects dendrite formation and maintenance. miR-375 overexpression in mouse hippocampus potently reduced dendrite density. We identified the predominantly neuronal RNA-binding protein HuD as a key effector of miR-375 influence on dendrite maintenance. Heterologous reporter analysis verified that miR-375 repressed HuD expression through a specific, evolutionarily conserved site on the HuD 3' untranslated region. miR-375 overexpression lowered both HuD mRNA stability and translation and recapitulated the effects of HuD silencing, which reduced the levels of target proteins with key functions in neuronal signaling and cytoskeleton organization (N-cadherin, PSD-95, RhoA, NCAM1, and integrin alpha1). Moreover, the increase in neurite outgrowth after brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) treatment was diminished by miR-375 overexpression; this effect was rescued by reexpression of miR-375-refractory HuD. Our findings indicate that miR-375 modulates neuronal HuD expression and function, in turn affecting dendrite abundance.	Animals;Cell Line;Dendrites/ metabolism/ultrastructure;ELAV Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;ELAV-Like Protein 4;Gene Expression Regulation;Hippocampus/cytology;Humans;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neurites/metabolism/ultrastructure;Neurogenesis;RNA Stability;RNA, Messenger/genetics
Senescence-associated lncRNAs: senescence-associated long noncoding RNAs	K. Abdelmohsen, et al.	2013	23758631	Noncoding RNAs include small transcripts, such as microRNAs and piwi-interacting RNAs, and a wide range of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs). Although many lncRNAs have been identified, only a small number of lncRNAs have been characterized functionally. Here, we sought to identify lncRNAs differentially expressed during replicative senescence. We compared lncRNAs expressed in proliferating, early-passage, 'young' human diploid WI-38 fibroblasts [population doubling (PDL) 20] with those expressed in senescent, late-passage, 'old' fibroblasts (PDL 52) by RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq). Numerous transcripts in all lncRNA groups (antisense lncRNAs, pseudogene-encoded lncRNAs, previously described lncRNAs and novel lncRNAs) were validated using reverse transcription (RT) and real-time, quantitative (q)PCR. Among the novel senescence-associated lncRNAs (SAL-RNAs) showing lower abundance in senescent cells, SAL-RNA1 (XLOC_023166) was found to delay senescence, because reducing SAL-RNA1 levels enhanced the appearance of phenotypic traits of senescence, including an enlarged morphology, positive beta-galactosidase activity, and heightened p53 levels. Our results reveal that the expression of known and novel lncRNAs changes with senescence and suggests that SAL-RNAs play direct regulatory roles in this important cellular process.	Aging/ genetics;Cell Growth Processes/genetics;Fibroblasts/cytology/metabolism/physiology;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Pseudogenes;RNA, Antisense/biosynthesis/genetics;RNA, Long Noncoding/biosynthesis/ genetics;Transcriptome;Transfection;noncoding;post-transcriptional gene regulation;proliferation;senescence-associated gene expression patterns
Circular RNAs in monkey muscle: age-dependent changes	K. Abdelmohsen, et al.	2015	26546448	Circular RNAs (circRNAs) have been identified in numerous species, including human, mouse, nematode, and coelacanth. They are believed to function as regulators of gene expression at least in part by sponging microRNAs. Here, we describe the identification of circRNAs in monkey (Rhesus macaque) skeletal muscle. RNA sequencing analysis was employed to identify and annotate ~12,000 circRNAs, including numerous circular intronic RNAs (ciRNAs), from skeletal muscle of monkeys of a range of ages. Reverse transcription followed by real-time quantitative (q)PCR analysis verified the presence of these circRNAs, including the existence of several highly abundant circRNAs, and the differential abundance of a subset of circRNAs as a function of age. Taken together, our study has documented systematically circRNAs expressed in skeletal muscle and has identified circRNAs differentially abundant with advancing muscle age. We propose that some of these circRNAs might influence muscle function.	Age Factors;Animals;Macaca mulatta;Muscle, Skeletal/ metabolism;RNA/analysis/ physiology;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Sequence Analysis, RNA;RNA-sequencing;aging;post-transcriptional gene regulation;ribonucleoprotein complex;splicing
miR-519 reduces cell proliferation by lowering RNA-binding protein HuR levels	K. Abdelmohsen, et al.	2008	19088191	Gene expression is potently regulated through the action of RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) and microRNAs (miRNAs). Here, we present evidence of a miRNA regulating an RBP. The RBP HuR can stabilize and modulate the translation of numerous target mRNAs involved in cell proliferation, but little is known about the mechanisms that regulate HuR abundance. We identified two putative sites of miR-519 interaction on the HuR mRNA, one in its coding region (CR), one in its 3'-untranslated region (UTR). In several human carcinoma cell lines tested, HeLa (cervical), HCT116 and RKO (colon), and A2780 (ovarian), overexpression of a miR-519 precursor [(Pre)miR-519] reduced HuR abundance, while inhibiting miR-519 by using an antisense RNA [(AS)miR-519] elevated HuR levels. The influence of miR-519 was recapitulated using heterologous reporter constructs that revealed a greater repressive effect on the HuR CR than the HuR 3'-UTR target sequences. miR-519 did not alter HuR mRNA abundance, but reduced HuR biosynthesis, as determined by measuring nascent HuR translation and HuR mRNA association with polysomes. Modulation of miR-519 leading to altered HuR levels in turn affected the levels of proteins encoded by HuR target mRNAs. In keeping with HuR's proliferative influence, (AS)miR-519 significantly increased cell number and [(3)H]-thymidine incorporation, while (Pre)miR-519 reduced these parameters. Importantly, the growth-promoting effects of (AS)miR-519 required the presence of HuR, because downregulation of HuR by RNAi dramatically suppressed its proliferative action. In sum, miR-519 represses HuR translation, in turn reducing HuR-regulated gene expression and cell division.	3' Untranslated Regions;Antigens, Surface/biosynthesis/ genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Down-Regulation;ELAV Proteins;ELAV-Like Protein 1;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;MicroRNAs/metabolism/ physiology;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;RNA-Binding Proteins/biosynthesis/ genetics
Growth inhibition by miR-519 via multiple p21-inducing pathways	K. Abdelmohsen, et al.	2012	22547681	The microRNA miR-519 robustly inhibits cell proliferation, in turn triggering senescence and decreasing tumor growth. However, the molecular mediators of miR-519-elicited growth inhibition are unknown. Here, we systematically investigated the influence of miR-519 on gene expression profiles leading to growth cessation in HeLa human cervical carcinoma cells. By analyzing miR-519-triggered changes in protein and mRNA expression patterns and by identifying mRNAs associated with biotinylated miR-519, we uncovered two prominent subsets of miR-519-regulated mRNAs. One subset of miR-519 target mRNAs encoded DNA maintenance proteins (including DUT1, EXO1, RPA2, and POLE4); miR-519 repressed their expression and increased DNA damage, in turn raising the levels of the cyclin-dependent kinase (cdk) inhibitor p21. The other subset of miR-519 target mRNAs encoded proteins that control intracellular calcium levels (notably, ATP2C1 and ORAI1); their downregulation by miR-519 aberrantly elevated levels of cytosolic [Ca(2+)] storage in HeLa cells, similarly increasing p21 levels in a manner dependent on the Ca(2+)-activated kinases CaMKII and GSK3beta. The rises in levels of DNA damage, the Ca(2+) concentration, and p21 levels stimulated an autophagic phenotype in HeLa and other human carcinoma cell lines. As a consequence, ATP levels increased, and the level of activity of the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) declined, further contributing to the elevation in the abundance of p21. Our results indicate that miR-519 promotes DNA damage, alters Ca(2+) homeostasis, and enhances energy production; together, these processes elevate the expression level of p21, promoting growth inhibition and cell survival.	Autophagy;Base Sequence;Calcium/metabolism;Calcium Channels/genetics;Calcium Signaling;Calcium-Transporting ATPases/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Cell Survival;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/antagonists &;inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;DNA Damage;DNA Polymerase II/genetics;DNA Repair;DNA Repair Enzymes/genetics;Energy Metabolism;Exodeoxyribonucleases/genetics;HeLa Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Models, Biological;ORAI1 Protein;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics;Replication Protein A/genetics;Signal Transduction
RNA-binding protein AUF1 represses Dicer expression	K. Abdelmohsen, et al.	2012	23066106	MicroRNA (miRNA) biogenesis is tightly regulated by numerous proteins. Among them, Dicer is required for the processing of the precursor (pre-)miRNAs into the mature miRNA. Despite its critical function, the mechanisms that regulate Dicer expression are not well understood. Here we report that the RNA-binding protein (RBP) AUF1 (AU-binding factor 1) associates with the endogenous DICER1 mRNA and can interact with several segments of DICER1 mRNA within the coding region (CR) and the 3'-untranslated region (UTR). Through these interactions, AUF1 lowered DICER1 mRNA stability, since silencing AUF1 lengthened DICER1 mRNA half-life and increased Dicer expression, while overexpressing AUF1 lowered DICER1 mRNA and Dicer protein levels. Given that Dicer is necessary for the synthesis of mature miRNAs, the lowering of Dicer levels by AUF1 diminished the levels of miRNAs tested, but not the levels of the corresponding pre-miRNAs. In summary, AUF1 suppresses miRNA production by reducing Dicer production.	3' Untranslated Regions;Cell Line;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/ genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Heterogeneous-Nuclear Ribonucleoprotein D/ metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Neoplasms/enzymology/metabolism;RNA Stability;RNA, Messenger/ metabolism;Ribonuclease III/ genetics/metabolism
Impact of age-associated increase in 2'-O-methylation of miRNAs on aging and neurodegeneration in Drosophila	M. Abe, et al.	2014	24395246	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are 20- to approximately 24-nucleotide (nt) small RNAs that impact a variety of biological processes, from development to age-associated events. To study the role of miRNAs in aging, studies have profiled the levels of miRNAs with time. However, evidence suggests that miRNAs show heterogeneity in length and sequence in different biological contexts. Here, by examining the expression pattern of miRNAs by Northern blot analysis, we found that Drosophila miRNAs show distinct isoform pattern changes with age. Surprisingly, an increase of some miRNAs reflects increased 2'-O-methylation of select isoforms. Small RNA deep sequencing revealed a global increase of miRNAs loaded into Ago2, but not into Ago1, with age. Our data suggest increased loading of miRNAs into Ago2, but not Ago1, with age, indicating a mechanism for differential loading of miRNAs with age between Ago1 and Ago2. Mutations in Hen1 and Ago2, which lack 2'-O-methylation of miRNAs, result in accelerated neurodegeneration and shorter life span, suggesting a potential impact of the age-associated increase of 2'-O-methylation of small RNAs on age-associated processes. Our study highlights that miRNA 2'-O-methylation at the 3' end is modulated by differential partitioning of miRNAs between Ago1 and Ago2 with age and that this process, along with other functions of Ago2, might impact age-associated events in Drosophila.	Aging/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Argonaute Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Drosophila/genetics/metabolism/ physiology;Drosophila Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Methylation;Methyltransferases/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Mutation;Neurons/pathology;Protein Isoforms/genetics/metabolism;2'-O-methylation;aging;miRNA;miRNA sorting;neurodegeneration
A morphologically conserved nonapoptotic program promotes linker cell death in Caenorhabditis elegans	M. C. Abraham, et al.	2007	17199042	Apoptosis, cell death characterized by stereotypical morphological features, requires caspase proteases. Nonapoptotic, caspase-independent cell death pathways have been postulated; however, little is known about their molecular constituents or in vivo functions. Here, we show that death of the Caenorhabditis elegans linker cell during development is independent of the ced-3 caspase and all known cell death genes. The linker cell employs a cell-autonomous death program, and a previously undescribed engulfment program is required for its clearance. Dying linker cells display nonapoptotic features, including nuclear crenellation, absence of chromatin condensation, organelle swelling, and accumulation of cytoplasmic membrane-bound structures. Similar features are seen during developmental death of neurons in the vertebrate spinal cord and ciliary ganglia. Linker cell death is controlled by the microRNA let-7 and Zn-finger protein LIN-29, components of the C. elegans developmental timing pathway. We propose that the program executing linker cell death is conserved and used during vertebrate development.	Animals;Caenorhabditis elegans/ cytology/ultrastructure;Cell Death;Genes, Developmental;Male;Mutation/genetics;Phagocytosis/physiology;Wallerian Degeneration
MiR-26b, upregulated in Alzheimer's disease, activates cell cycle entry, tau-phosphorylation, and apoptosis in postmitotic neurons	S. Absalon, et al.	2013	24027266	MicroRNA (miRNA) functions in the pathogenesis of major neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) are only beginning to emerge. We have observed significantly elevated levels of a specific miRNA, miR-26b, in the defined pathological areas of human postmortem brains, starting from early stages of AD (Braak III). Ectopic overexpression of miR-26b in rat primary postmitotic neurons led to the DNA replication and aberrant cell cycle entry (CCE) and, in parallel, increased tau-phosphorylation, which culminated in the apoptotic cell death of neurons. Similar tau hyperphosphorylation and CCE are typical features of neurons in pre-AD brains. Sequence-specific inhibition of miR-26b in culture is neuroprotective against oxidative stress. Retinoblastoma protein (Rb1), a major tumor suppressor, appears as the key direct miR-26b target, which mediates the observed neuronal phenotypes. The downstream signaling involves upregulation of Rb1/E2F cell cycle and pro-apoptotic transcriptional targets, including cyclin E1, and corresponding downregulation of cell cycle inhibitor p27/Kip1. It further leads to nuclear export and activation of Cdk5, a major kinase implicated in tau phosphorylation, regulation of cell cycle, and death in postmitotic neurons. Therefore, upregulation of miR-26b in neurons causes pleiotropic phenotypes that are also observed in AD. Elevated levels of miR-26b may thus contribute to the AD neuronal pathology.	Alzheimer Disease/metabolism/pathology/physiopathology;Animals;Apoptosis/ physiology;Brain;Cell Cycle/ physiology;Cell Survival;Cells, Cultured;Cerebral Cortex/cytology;E2F1 Transcription Factor/genetics/metabolism;Embryo, Mammalian;Female;Fetus;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/metabolism;Neurons/ metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics/metabolism;Rats;Up-Regulation/ physiology;tau Proteins/ metabolism
Restoration of muscle strength in dystrophic muscle by angiotensin-1-7 through inhibition of TGF-beta signalling	M. J. Acuna, et al.	2014	24163134	Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is the most common inherited neuromuscular disease, and is characterized by the lack of dystrophin, muscle wasting, increased transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta Smad-dependent signalling and fibrosis. Acting via the Mas receptor, angiotensin-1-7 [Ang-(1-7)], is part of the renin-angiotensin system, with the opposite effect to that of angiotensin II. We hypothesized that the Ang-(1-7)/Mas receptor axis might protect chronically damaged tissues as in skeletal muscle of the DMD mouse model mdx. Infusion or oral administration of Ang-(1-7) in mdx mice normalized skeletal muscle architecture, decreased local fibrosis and improved muscle function in vitro and in vivo. These positive effects were mediated by the inhibition of TGF-beta Smad signalling, which in turn led to reduction of the pro-fibrotic microRNA miR-21 concomitant with a reduction in the number of TCF4 expressing fibroblasts. Mdx mice infused with Mas antagonist (A-779) and mdx deficient for the Mas receptor showed highly deteriorated muscular architecture, increased fibrosis and TGF-beta signalling with diminished muscle strength. These results suggest that this novel compound Ang-(1-7) might be used to improve quality of life and delay death in individuals with DMD and this drug should be investigated in further pre-clinical trials.	Angiotensin I/administration & dosage/ pharmacology;Animals;Disease Models, Animal;Extracellular Matrix/metabolism;Fibroblasts/drug effects/metabolism;Fibrosis;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred mdx;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Muscle Strength/ drug effects;Muscle, Skeletal/drug effects/metabolism/pathology;Muscular Dystrophy, Duchenne/genetics/ metabolism;Peptide Fragments/administration & dosage/ pharmacology;Receptors, Cell Surface/antagonists & inhibitors;Signal Transduction/ drug effects;Transforming Growth Factor beta/ metabolism
miR-34a Silences c-SRC to Attenuate Tumor Growth in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer	B. D. Adams, et al.	2016	26676753	Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is an aggressive subtype with no clinically proven biologically targeted treatment options. The molecular heterogeneity of TNBC and lack of high frequency driver mutations other than TP53 have hindered the development of new and effective therapies that significantly improve patient outcomes. miRNAs, global regulators of survival and proliferation pathways important in tumor development and maintenance, are becoming promising therapeutic agents. We performed miRNA-profiling studies in different TNBC subtypes to identify miRNAs that significantly contribute to disease progression. We found that miR-34a was lost in TNBC, specifically within mesenchymal and mesenchymal stem cell-like subtypes, whereas expression of miR-34a targets was significantly enriched. Furthermore, restoration of miR-34a in cell lines representing these subtypes inhibited proliferation and invasion, activated senescence, and promoted sensitivity to dasatinib by targeting the proto-oncogene c-SRC. Notably, SRC depletion in TNBC cell lines phenocopied the effects of miR-34a reintroduction, whereas SRC overexpression rescued the antitumorigenic properties mediated by miR-34a. miR-34a levels also increased when cells were treated with c-SRC inhibitors, suggesting a negative feedback exists between miR-34a and c-SRC. Moreover, miR-34a administration significantly delayed tumor growth of subcutaneously and orthotopically implanted tumors in nude mice, and was accompanied by c-SRC downregulation. Finally, we found that miR-34a and SRC levels were inversely correlated in human tumor specimens. Together, our results demonstrate that miR-34a exerts potent antitumorigenic effects in vitro and in vivo and suggests that miR-34a replacement therapy, which is currently being tested in human clinical trials, represents a promising therapeutic strategy for TNBC.	Animals;Cell Line, Tumor;Female;Humans;Mice;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Triple Negative Breast Neoplasms/genetics;src-Family Kinases/ metabolism
MicroRNA miR-885-5p targets CDK2 and MCM5, activates p53 and inhibits proliferation and survival	E. A. Afanasyeva, et al.	2011	21233845	Several microRNA (miRNA) loci are found within genomic regions frequently deleted in primary neuroblastoma, including miR-885-5p at 3p25.3. In this study, we demonstrate that miR-885-5p is downregulated on loss of 3p25.3 region in neuroblastoma. Experimentally enforced miR-885-5p expression in neuroblastoma cell lines inhibits proliferation triggering cell cycle arrest, senescence and/or apoptosis. miR-885-5p leads to the accumulation of p53 protein and activates the p53 pathway, resulting in upregulation of p53 targets. Enforced miR-885-5p expression consistently leads to downregulation of cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK2) and mini-chromosome maintenance protein (MCM5). Both genes are targeted by miR-885-5p via predicted binding sites within the 3'-untranslated regions (UTRs) of CDK2 and MCM5. Transcript profiling after miR-885-5p introduction in neuroblastoma cells reveals alterations in expression of multiple genes, including several p53 target genes and a number of factors involved in p53 pathway activity. Taken together, these data provide evidence that miR-885-5p has a tumor suppressive role in neuroblastoma interfering with cell cycle progression and cell survival.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Base Sequence;Cell Cycle Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Cell Survival;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 2/genetics/ metabolism;Down-Regulation/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/genetics;Genetic Loci;Humans;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Neuroblastoma/genetics/metabolism;RNA, Neoplasm/biosynthesis/genetics;Sequence Deletion;Tumor Cells, Cultured;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/ metabolism
Purification of pre-miR-29 by a new O-phospho-l-tyrosine affinity chromatographic strategy optimized using design of experiments	A. Afonso, et al.	2014	24751555	MicroRNAs are the most studied small non-coding RNA molecules that are involved in post-transcriptional regulation of target genes. Their role in Alzheimer's disease is being studied and explored in order to develop a new therapeutic strategy based on specific gene silencing. This disease is characterized by protein deposits, mainly deposits of extracellular Abeta plaques, produced upon endoproteolytic cleavage of APP by ss-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1). Recent studies have shown that particularly miR-29 cluster can be involved in the decrease of Abeta plaques production, by acting on BACE1 expression silencing. In order to use this microRNA as potential therapeutic it is essential to guarantee its purity, stability and integrity. Hence, the main purpose of this study was the development of a new affinity chromatographic strategy by using an O-phospho-l-tyrosine matrix and applying Box-Behnken design (BBD) to obtain pre-miR-29 with high purity degree and yield, envisioning its application in gene therapy. Thus, after process optimization the best results were achieved with a decreasing ammonium sulfate gradient in 10mM Tris buffer, pH 8 (1.6M (NH4)2SO4, 1.11M (NH4)2SO4 and 0M (NH4)2SO4), at 16 degrees C. These experimental conditions allowed the recovery of pre-miR-29 with 52% of purity and 71% of recovery yield. The O-phospho-l-tyrosine matrix was initially chosen to mimic the natural interactions that occur inside the cell, and in fact it was proved a satisfactory selectivity for pre-miR-29. Also the innovative application of BBD for this strategy was efficient (R(2)=0.98 for % relative recovery and R(2)=0.93 for % relative purity) and essential to achieve best purification results in short time, saving lab resources.	Chromatography, Affinity/ methods;Imaging, Three-Dimensional;MicroRNAs/chemistry/ isolation & purification;Temperature;Tyrosine/ analogs & derivatives/ chemistry;Affinity chromatography;Box-Behnken design;Design of experiments;l-Tyrosine;pre-miR-29
LMNA mutations resulting in lipodystrophy and HIV protease inhibitors trigger vascular smooth muscle cell senescence and calcification: Role of ZMPSTE24 downregulation	P. Afonso, et al.	2016	26724531	BACKGROUND: Some LMNA mutations responsible for lipodystrophies, and some HIV-protease inhibitors (PIs) induce accumulation of farnesylated prelamin A and premature senescence in some cell types. Patients with LMNA mutations or under PI-based therapy suffer from early atherosclerosis. The metalloprotease ZMPSTE24 is the key enzyme in prelamin A maturation. AIM: We studied whether altered expression of ZMPSTE24 could contribute to vascular cell dysfunction in response to LMNA mutations or PI treatments. METHODS: Protein expression of prelamin A and ZMPSTE24 were evaluated in patients' cells and in human cultured VSMCs. Oxidative stress, inflammation, senescence and transdifferentiation/calcification were evaluated in VSMCs. RESULTS: Fibroblasts from LMNA-mutated lipodystrophic patients (mutations R482W, D47Y or R133L) and peripheral blood mononuclear cells from PI-treated-HIV-infected patients expressed increased prelamin A and decreased ZMPSTE24, which was also observed in VSMCs overexpressing mutant LMNA or treated with PIs. These alterations correlated with oxidative stress, inflammation, senescence and calcification (all p < 0.05). ZMPSTE24 silencing in native VSMCs recapitulated the mutant LMNA- and PI-induced accumulation of farnesylated prelamin A, oxidative stress, inflammation, senescence and calcification. A negative regulator of ZMPSTE24, miRNA-141-3p, was enhanced in LMNA-mutated or PI-treated VSMCs. The farnesylation inhibitors pravastatin and FTI-277, or the antioxidant N-acetyl cysteine, partly restored ZMPSTE24 expression, and concomitantly decreased oxidative stress, inflammation, senescence, and calcification of PI-treated VSCMs. CONCLUSIONS: ZMPSTE24 downregulation is a major contributor in VSMC dysfunctions resulting from LMNA mutations or PI treatments that could translate in early atherosclerosis at the clinical level. These novel pathophysiological mechanisms could open new therapeutic perspectives for cardiovascular aging.	Cell Aging/drug effects;Cells, Cultured;DNA/genetics;DNA Mutational Analysis;Down-Regulation;HIV Protease Inhibitors/ pharmacology;Humans;Lamin Type A/ genetics/metabolism;Lipodystrophy/drug therapy/ genetics/metabolism;Membrane Proteins/biosynthesis/ genetics;Metalloendopeptidases/biosynthesis/ genetics;Mutation;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Vascular Calcification/drug therapy/ genetics/metabolism;Atherosclerosis;Osteogenic transdifferentiation;Prelamin A;Senescence;Vascular smooth muscle cells;Zmpste24
Age-Dependent Effect of Pediatric Cardiac Progenitor Cells After Juvenile Heart Failure	U. Agarwal, et al.	2016	27151913	UNLABELLED: Children with congenital heart diseases have increased morbidity and mortality, despite various surgical treatments, therefore warranting better treatment strategies. Here we investigate the role of age of human pediatric cardiac progenitor cells (hCPCs) on ventricular remodeling in a model of juvenile heart failure. hCPCs isolated from children undergoing reconstructive surgeries were divided into 3 groups based on age: neonate (1 day to 1 month), infant (1 month to 1 year), and child (1 to 5 years). Adolescent athymic rats were subjected to sham or pulmonary artery banding surgery to generate a model of right ventricular (RV) heart failure. Two weeks after surgery, hCPCs were injected in RV musculature noninvasively. Analysis of cardiac function 4 weeks post-transplantation demonstrated significantly increased tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion and RV ejection fraction and significantly decreased wall thickness and fibrosis in rats transplanted with neonatal hCPCs compared with saline-injected rats. Computational modeling and systems biology analysis were performed on arrays and gave insights into potential mechanisms at the microRNA and gene level. Mechanisms including migration and proliferation assays, as suggested by computational modeling, showed improved chemotactic and proliferative capacity of neonatal hCPCs compared with infant/child hCPCs. In vivo immunostaining further suggested increased recruitment of stem cell antigen 1-positive cells in the right ventricle. This is the first study to assess the role of hCPC age in juvenile RV heart failure. Interestingly, the reparative potential of hCPCs is age-dependent, with neonatal hCPCs exerting the maximum beneficial effect compared with infant and child hCPCs. SIGNIFICANCE: Stem cell therapy for children with congenital heart defects is moving forward, with several completed and ongoing clinical trials. Although there are studies showing how children differ from adults, few focus on the differences among children. This study using human cardiac progenitor cells shows age-related changes in the reparative ability of cells in a model of pediatric heart failure and uses computational and systems biology to elucidate potential mechanisms.	Adult;Aging/ physiology;Animals;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Child, Preschool;Heart Defects, Congenital/pathology/ therapy;Heart Failure/pathology/ therapy;Humans;Infant;Infant, Newborn;Myocardium/ cytology;Rats;Rats, Nude;Rats, Transgenic;Stem Cell Transplantation;Stem Cells/ cytology;Ventricular Remodeling;Cell transplantation;Computational biology;Heart failure;Pediatrics;Progenitor cell
Neuronal differentiation by TAp73 is mediated by microRNA-34a regulation of synaptic protein targets	M. Agostini, et al.	2011	22160687	The p53-family member TAp73 is a transcription factor that plays a key role in many biological processes. Here, we show that p73 drives the expression of microRNA (miR)-34a, but not miR-34b and -c, by acting on specific binding sites on the miR-34a promoter. Expression of miR-34a is modulated in parallel with that of TAp73 during in vitro differentiation of neuroblastoma cells and cortical neurons. Retinoid-driven neuroblastoma differentiation is inhibited by knockdown of either p73 or miR-34a. Transcript expression of miR-34a is significantly reduced in vivo both in the cortex and hippocampus of p73(-/-) mice; miR-34a and TAp73 expression also increase during postnatal development of the brain and cerebellum when synaptogenesis occurs. Accordingly, overexpression or silencing of miR-34a inversely modulates expression of synaptic targets, including synaptotagmin-1 and syntaxin-1A. Notably, the axis TAp73/miR-34a/synaptotagmin-1 is conserved in brains from Alzheimer's patients. These data reinforce a role for TAp73 in neuronal development.	Alzheimer Disease/metabolism/pathology;Animals;Blotting, Western;Cell Differentiation/ physiology;Cerebral Cortex/metabolism/ physiology;Chromatin Immunoprecipitation;Computational Biology;Gene Expression Regulation/genetics/ physiology;Hippocampus/metabolism;Humans;Laser Capture Microdissection;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Neurons/ cytology;Nuclear Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Promoter Regions, Genetic/genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Synaptotagmin I/metabolism
MicroRNA-214 controls skin and hair follicle development by modulating the activity of the Wnt pathway	M. I. Ahmed, et al.	2014	25422376	Skin development is governed by complex programs of gene activation and silencing, including microRNA-dependent modulation of gene expression. Here, we show that miR-214 regulates skin morphogenesis and hair follicle (HF) cycling by targeting beta-catenin, a key component of the Wnt signaling pathway. miR-214 exhibits differential expression patterns in the skin epithelium, and its inducible overexpression in keratinocytes inhibited proliferation, which resulted in formation of fewer HFs with decreased hair bulb size and thinner hair production. The inhibitory effects of miR-214 on HF development and cycling were associated with altered activities of multiple signaling pathways, including decreased expression of key Wnt signaling mediators beta-catenin and Lef-1, and were rescued by treatment with pharmacological Wnt activators. Finally, we identify beta-catenin as one of the conserved miR-214 targets in keratinocytes. These data provide an important foundation for further analyses of miR-214 as a key regulator of Wnt pathway activity and stem cell functions during normal tissue homeostasis, regeneration, and aging.	Animals;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Differentiation/physiology;Cells, Cultured;Genotype;Hair Follicle/ growth & development/metabolism;Keratin-10/biosynthesis;Keratin-14/biosynthesis;Keratinocytes/cytology;Lymphoid Enhancer-Binding Factor 1/biosynthesis/ genetics;Membrane Proteins/biosynthesis;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ physiology;Regeneration/genetics;Skin/growth & development/metabolism;Wnt Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Wnt Signaling Pathway;beta Catenin/biosynthesis/genetics
MicroRNA-195 protects against dementia induced by chronic brain hypoperfusion via its anti-amyloidogenic effect in rats	J. Ai, et al.	2013	23447608	Previous studies have demonstrated that chronic brain hypoperfusion (CBH) causes Abeta aggregation by upregulating expression of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and beta-site APP cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) protein, which is accompanied by cognitive impairment, but the mechanisms are not fully understood. In this study, we evaluated the effect of microRNA on memory impairment in rats induced by CBH. We show here that CBH generated by bilateral common carotid artery occlusion (2VO) significantly decreased the learning and memory ability in rats, as assessed by Morris water maze, and upregulated expression of APP and BACE1 proteins in the hippocampus and cortex of rats, as evaluated by Western blot and immunofluorescence. In reciprocal, qRT-PCR analysis showed that microRNA-195 (miR-195) was downregulated in both the hippocampus and cortex of rats following CBH, and in the plasma of dementia patients. APP and BACE1 proteins were downregulated by miR-195 overexpression, upregulated by miR-195 inhibition, and unchanged by binding-site mutation or miR-masks, indicating that APP and BACE1 are two potential targets for miR-195. Knockdown of endogenous miR-195 by lentiviral vector-mediated overexpression of its antisense molecule (lenti-pre-AMO-miR-195) elicited dementia in rats, whereas overexpression of miR-195 using lenti-pre-miR-195 reduced dementia vulnerability triggered by 2VO. Additionally, chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis showed that NFkappaB was bound to the promoter region of miR-195 and inhibited its expression. We conclude that miR-195 may play a key role in determining dementia susceptibility in 2VO rats by regulating APP and BACE1 expression at the post-transcriptional level, and exogenous complement of miR-195 may be a potentially valuable anti-dementia approach.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/genetics/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/blood/ metabolism;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/genetics/metabolism;Analysis of Variance;Animals;Animals, Newborn;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/genetics/metabolism;Carotid Artery Diseases/ complications;Cells, Cultured;Cerebral Cortex/cytology/metabolism;Dementia/ etiology/genetics/pathology/therapy;Disease Models, Animal;Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects/ physiology;Hippocampus/cytology/metabolism;Humans;Immunoprecipitation;Lipopolysaccharides/pharmacology;Male;Maze Learning/drug effects/physiology;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/blood/ therapeutic use;Neurons/drug effects;Neuroprotective Agents/metabolism/ therapeutic use;Oligonucleotides, Antisense/pharmacology;Peptide Fragments/metabolism;Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases/genetics/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Transfection
Visualization and genetic modification of resident brain microglia using lentiviral vectors regulated by microRNA-9	M. Akerblom, et al.	2013	23612311	Functional studies of resident microglia require molecular tools for their genetic manipulation. Here we show that microRNA-9-regulated lentiviral vectors can be used for the targeted genetic modification of resident microglia in the rodent brain. Using transgenic reporter mice, we demonstrate that murine microglia lack microRNA-9 activity, whereas most other cells in the brain express microRNA-9. Injection of microRNA-9-regulated vectors into the adult rat brain induces transgene expression specifically in cells with morphological features typical of ramified microglia. The majority of transgene-expressing cells colabels with the microglia marker Iba1. We use this approach to visualize and isolate activated resident microglia without affecting circulating and infiltrating monocytes or macrophages in an excitotoxic lesion model in rat striatum. The microRNA-9-regulated vectors described here are a straightforward and powerful tool that facilitates functional studies of resident microglia.	Aging/metabolism;Animals;Brain/ cytology;Down-Regulation/genetics;Female;Genetic Techniques;Genetic Vectors/administration & dosage/ metabolism;Lentivirus/ genetics;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Microglia/cytology/ metabolism;Neural Stem Cells/cytology/metabolism;Proviruses/genetics;Rats;Transgenes
The role of RNA metabolism in neurological diseases	A. M. Alaqeel, et al.	2015	27785391	Neurodegenerative disorders are commonly encountered in medical practices. Such diseases can lead to major morbidity and mortality among the affected individuals. The molecular pathogenesis of these disorders is not yet clear. Recent literature has revealed that mutations in RNA-binding proteins are a key cause of several human neuronal-based diseases. This review discusses the role of RNA metabolism in neurological diseases with specific emphasis on roles of RNA translation and microRNAs in neurodegeneration, RNA-mediated toxicity, repeat expansion diseases and RNA metabolism, molecular pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal dementia, and neurobiology of survival motor neuron (SMN) and spinal muscular atrophy.	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis;Frontotemporal dementia;Rna;Spinal muscular atrophy;Survival motor neuron (SMN)
Involvement of miRNAs in the differentiation of human glioblastoma multiforme stem-like cells	B. Aldaz, et al.	2013	24155920	Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM)-initiating cells (GICs) represent a tumor subpopulation with neural stem cell-like properties that is responsible for the development, progression and therapeutic resistance of human GBM. We have recently shown that blockade of NFkappaB pathway promotes terminal differentiation and senescence of GICs both in vitro and in vivo, indicating that induction of differentiation may be a potential therapeutic strategy for GBM. MicroRNAs have been implicated in the pathogenesis of GBM, but a high-throughput analysis of their role in GIC differentiation has not been reported. We have established human GIC cell lines that can be efficiently differentiated into cells expressing astrocytic and neuronal lineage markers. Using this in vitro system, a microarray-based high-throughput analysis to determine global expression changes of microRNAs during differentiation of GICs was performed. A number of changes in the levels of microRNAs were detected in differentiating GICs, including over-expression of hsa-miR-21, hsa-miR-29a, hsa-miR-29b, hsa-miR-221 and hsa-miR-222, and down-regulation of hsa-miR-93 and hsa-miR-106a. Functional studies showed that miR-21 over-expression in GICs induced comparable cell differentiation features and targeted SPRY1 mRNA, which encodes for a negative regulator of neural stem-cell differentiation. In addition, miR-221 and miR-222 inhibition in differentiated cells restored the expression of stem cell markers while reducing differentiation markers. Finally, miR-29a and miR-29b targeted MCL1 mRNA in GICs and increased apoptosis. Our study uncovers the microRNA dynamic expression changes occurring during differentiation of GICs, and identifies miR-21 and miR-221/222 as key regulators of this process.	Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Astrocytes/metabolism/pathology;Biomarkers, Tumor/metabolism;Brain Neoplasms/ genetics/ pathology/surgery;Cell Differentiation/ genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein/metabolism;Glioblastoma/ genetics/ pathology/surgery;Humans;Membrane Proteins/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Myeloid Cell Leukemia Sequence 1 Protein/metabolism;Neoplastic Stem Cells/ metabolism/pathology;Nestin/metabolism;Neurons/metabolism/pathology;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Phosphoproteins/metabolism;Spheroids, Cellular/metabolism/pathology;Tubulin/metabolism
Female aging alters expression of human cumulus cells genes that are essential for oocyte quality	T. Al-Edani, et al.	2014	25276836	Impact of female aging is an important issue in human reproduction. There was a need for an extensive analysis of age impact on transcriptome profile of cumulus cells (CCs) to link oocyte quality and developmental potential with patient's age. CCs from patients of three age groups were analyzed individually using microarrays. RT-qPCR validation was performed on independent CC cohorts. We focused here on pathways affected by aging in CCs that may explain the decline of oocyte quality with age. In CCs collected from patients >37 years, angiogenic genes including ANGPTL4, LEPR, TGFBR3, and FGF2 were significantly overexpressed compared to patients of the two younger groups. In contrast genes implicated in TGF-beta signaling pathway such as AMH, TGFB1, inhibin, and activin receptor were underexpressed. CCs from patients whose ages are between 31 and 36 years showed an overexpression of genes related to insulin signaling pathway such as IGFBP3, PIK3R1, and IGFBP5. A bioinformatic analysis was performed to identify the microRNAs that are potential regulators of the differentially expressed genes of the study. It revealed that the pathways impacted by age were potential targets of specific miRNAs previously identified in our CCs small RNAs sequencing.	Adult;Aging/ genetics;Cumulus Cells/ cytology/ metabolism;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Oocytes/ cytology/ metabolism;Reproducibility of Results;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction;Transforming Growth Factor beta/metabolism
microRNA (miRNA) speciation in Alzheimer's disease (AD) cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and extracellular fluid (ECF)	P. N. Alexandrov, et al.	2012	23301201	Human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), produced by the choroid plexus and secreted into the brain ventricles and subarachnoid space, plays critical roles in intra-cerebral transport and the biophysical and immune protection of the brain. CSF composition provides valuable insight into soluble pathogenic bio-markers that may be diagnostic for brain disease. In these experiments we analyzed amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide and micro RNA (miRNA) abundance in CSF and in short post-mortem interval (PMI <2.1 hr) brain tissue-derived extracellular fluid (ECF) from Alzheimer's disease (AD) and age-matched control neocortex. There was a trend for decreased abundance of Abeta42 in the CSF and ECF in AD but it did not reach statistical significance (mean age ~72 yr; N=12; p~0.06, ANOVA). The most abundant nucleic acids in AD CSF and ECF were miRNAs, and their speciation and inducibility were studied further. Fluorescent miRNA-array-based analysis indicated significant increases in miRNA-9, miRNA-125b, miRNA-146a, miRNA-155 in AD CSF and ECF (N=12; p<0.01, ANOVA). Primary human neuronal-glial (HNG) cell co-cultures stressed with AD-derived ECF also displayed an up-regulation of these miRNAs, an effect that was quenched using the anti-NF-small ka, CyrillicB agents caffeic acid phenethyl ester (CAPE) or 1-fluoro-2-[2-(4-methoxy-phenyl)-ethenyl]-benzene (CAY10512). Increases in miRNAs were confirmed independently using a highly sensitive LED-Northern dot-blot assay. Several of these NF-small ka, CyrillicB-sensitive miRNAs are known to be up-regulated in AD brain, and associate with the progressive spreading of inflammatory neurodegeneration. The results indicate that miRNA-9, miRNA-125b, miRNA-146a and miRNA-155 are CSF- and ECF-abundant, NF-small ka, CyrillicB-sensitive pro-inflammatory miRNAs, and their enrichment in circulating CSF and ECF suggest that they may be involved in the modulation or proliferation of miRNA-triggered pathogenic signaling throughout the brain and central nervous system (CNS).	Alzheimer's disease (AD);CAPE (caffeic acid phenethyl ester);CAY10512 (1-fluoro-2-[2-(4-methoxyphenyl)-ethenyl]-benzene);NF-small ka, CyrillicB;inflammatory signaling;micro RNA
Expression of the phagocytosis-essential protein TREM2 is down-regulated by an aluminum-induced miRNA-34a in a murine microglial cell line	P. N. Alexandrov, et al.	2013	23778113	One of the key classical pathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the progressive accumulation of amyloid beta (Abeta42) peptides and their coalescence into highly insoluble senile plaque cores. A major factor driving Abeta42 peptide accumulation is the inability of brain cells to effectively clear excessive amounts of Abeta42 via phagocytosis. The trans-membrane spanning, sensor-receptor known as the "triggering receptor expressed in myeloid cells 2" (TREM2; chr6p21) is essential in the sensing, recognition, phagocytosis and clearance of noxious cellular debris from brain cells, including neurotoxic Abeta42 peptides. Recently, mutations in the TREM2 gene have been associated with amyloidogenesis in neurodegenerative diseases including AD. In this report, we provide evidence that aluminum-sulfate, when incubated with microglial cells, induces the up-regulation of an NF-small ka, CyrillicB-sensitive micro RNA-34a (miRNA-34a; chr1p36) that is known to target the TREM2 mRNA 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR), significantly down-regulating TREM2 expression. The aluminum-induced up-regulation of miRNA-34a and down-regulation of TREM2 expression were effectively quenched using the natural phenolic compound and NF-kB inhibitor CAPE [2-phenylethyl-(2E)-3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl) acrylate; caffeic-acid phenethyl ester]. These results suggest, for the first time, that an epigenetic mechanism involving an aluminum-triggered, NF-kB-sensitive, miRNA-34a-mediated down-regulation of TREM2 expression may impair phagocytic responses that ultimately contribute to Abeta42 peptide accumulation, aggregation, amyloidogenesis and inflammatory degeneration in the brain.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Aluminum/ pharmacology;Animals;Caffeic Acids/pharmacology;Cell Line;Down-Regulation/drug effects;Epigenesis, Genetic;Gene Expression/drug effects;Membrane Glycoproteins/ genetics/metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Microglia/cytology/ drug effects/metabolism;NF-kappa B/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/metabolism;Phagocytosis/genetics;Phenylethyl Alcohol/analogs & derivatives/pharmacology;Receptors, Immunologic/ genetics/metabolism;Aluminum sulfate;Alzheimer's disease;Genotoxicity;Inflammation;Microglial cells;Phagocytosis;Trem2
Disrupting the key circadian regulator CLOCK leads to age-dependent cardiovascular disease	F. J. Alibhai, et al.	2017	28223222	The circadian mechanism underlies daily rhythms in cardiovascular physiology and rhythm disruption is a major risk factor for heart disease and worse outcomes. However, the role of circadian rhythms is generally clinically unappreciated. Clock is a core component of the circadian mechanism and here we examine the role of Clock as a vital determinant of cardiac physiology and pathophysiology in aging. ClockDelta19/Delta19 mice develop age-dependent increases in heart weight, hypertrophy, dilation, impaired contractility, and reduced myogenic responsiveness. Young ClockDelta19/Delta19 hearts express dysregulated mRNAs and miRNAs in the PTEN-AKT signal pathways important for cardiac hypertrophy. We found a rhythm in the Pten gene and PTEN protein in WT hearts; rhythmic oscillations are lost in ClockDelta19/Delta19 hearts. Changes in PTEN are associated with reduced AKT activation and changes in downstream mediators GSK-3beta, PRAS40, and S6K1. Cardiomyocyte cultures confirm that Clock regulates the AKT signalling pathways crucial for cardiac hypertrophy. In old ClockDelta19/Delta19 mice cardiac AKT, GSK3beta, S6K1 phosphorylation are increased, consistent with the development of age-dependent cardiac hypertrophy. Lastly, we show that pharmacological modulation of the circadian mechanism with the REV-ERB agonist SR9009 reduces AKT activation and heart weight in old WT mice. Furthermore, SR9009 attenuates cardiac hypertrophy in mice subjected to transverse aortic constriction (TAC), supporting that the circadian mechanism plays an important role in regulating cardiac growth. These findings demonstrate a crucial role for Clock in growth and renewal; disrupting Clock leads to age-dependent cardiomyopathy. Pharmacological targeting of the circadian mechanism provides a new opportunity for treating heart disease.	Aging;Animals;CLOCK Proteins/ genetics/ metabolism;Cardiovascular Diseases/diagnosis/ etiology/ metabolism/physiopathology;Circadian Clocks;Disease Models, Animal;Echocardiography;Gene Expression Regulation;Hemodynamics;Mice;Mice, Knockout;Myocytes, Cardiac/metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics;Signal Transduction;Cardiac hypertrophy;Cardiovascular;Circadian;MicroRNA
miRNA expression is highly sensitive to a drug therapy in Parkinson's disease	A. Alieva, et al.	2015	25465742	BACKGROUND: miRNAs may play a role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. It is necessary to continue the search for new miRNAs that may affect the development of neurodegeneration in Parkinson's disease. METHODS: 20 untreated patients with Parkinson's disease and 18 treated patients with Parkinson's disease (Hoehn and Yahr scores 1-2) were studied. An analysis of the levels of 11 miRNAs in the peripheral blood lymphocytes of patients was carried out using reverse transcription followed by real-time PCR. RESULTS: The levels of miR-7, miR-9-3p, miR-9-5p, miR-129, and miR-132 were increased by more than three times in treated patients with Parkinson's disease compared with those of the controls. CONCLUSIONS: It is probable that miRNAs are very sensitive to drug therapy and that the effects of therapy observed may be associated with changes in the levels of these miRNAs and their target genes in patients with Parkinson's disease.	Aged;Antiparkinson Agents/ therapeutic use;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation/ drug effects;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Parkinson Disease/ drug therapy/ genetics;Parkinson's disease;Peripheral blood;microRNAs
Vascular calcification: the role of microRNAs	S. Alkagiet and K. Tziomalos	2017	28593882	Vascular calcification represents the deposition of calcium phosphate salts in the tunica media of the vascular wall. It occurs during aging but is accelerated and pronounced in patients with diabetes mellitus, chronic kidney disease (CKD) and established cardiovascular disease. Due to the loss of elasticity of the vessel wall, vascular calcification might result in left ventricular hypertrophy and compromise coronary perfusion. Accordingly, several studies showed that vascular calcification is associated with increased risk for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Accumulating data suggest that microRNAs (miRs) play an important role in vascular calcification. A variety of miRs have been implicated in the development of vascular calcification, whereas others appear to play a protective role. Accordingly, miRs might represent promising targets for the prevention of vascular calcification and its adverse cardiovascular sequelae. However, given the complexity of regulation of this process and the multitude of miRs involved, more research is needed to identify the optimal candidate miRs for targeting.	cardiovascular disease;microRNAs;vascular calcification;vascular smooth muscle cells
Vascular calcification: the role of microRNAs	S. Alkagiet and K. Tziomalos	2017	28426428	Vascular calcification represents the deposition of calcium phosphate salts in the tunica media of the vascular wall. It occurs during aging but is accelerated and pronounced in patients with diabetes mellitus, chronic kidney disease (CKD) and established cardiovascular disease. Due to the loss of elasticity of the vessel wall, vascular calcification might result in left ventricular hypertrophy and compromise coronary perfusion. Accordingly, several studies showed that vascular calcification is associated with increased risk for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Accumulating data suggest that microRNAs (miRs) play an important role in vascular calcification. A variety of miRs have been implicated in the development of vascular calcification, whereas others appear to play a protective role. Accordingly, miRs might represent promising targets for the prevention of vascular calcification and its adverse cardiovascular sequelae. However, given the complexity of regulation of this process and the multitude of miRs involved, more research is needed to identify the optimal candidate miRs for targeting.	cardiovascular disease;microRNAs;vascular calcification;vascular smooth muscle cells
p16INK4A induces senescence and inhibits EMT through microRNA-141/microRNA-146b-5p-dependent repression of AUF1	H. H. Al-Khalaf and A. Aboussekhra	2017	27596953	Senescence and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) processes are under the control of common tumor suppressor proteins, EMT transcription factors, and microRNAs. However, the molecular mechanisms that coordinate the functional link between senescence and EMT are still elusive. We have shown here that p16INK4A -related induction of senescence is mediated through miR-141 and miR-146b-5p. These two microRNAs are up-regulated in aging human fibroblast and epithelial cells. Furthermore, miR-141 and miR146b-5p trigger cell cycle arrest at G1 phase and induce senescence in primary human fibroblasts and breast cancer cells in the presence and absence of p16INK4A . Like p16INK4A -induced senescence, miR-141/miR146b-5p-related senescence is not associated with secretory phenotype, and is mediated through the RNA binding protein AUF1. We have further demonstrated that p16INK4A and its downstream miRNA targets inhibit EMT through suppressing the EMT inducer ZEB1 in an AUF1-dependent manner. Indeed, AUF1 binds the mRNA of this gene leading to increase in its level. These results indicate that p16INK4A controls both senescence and EMT through repressing EMT-related transcription factor via miR-141/miR146b-5p and their target AUF1. This sheds more light on the molecular basis of the tumor suppressive functions of p16INK4A , which represses both the proliferative and the migratory/invasive capacities of cells. (c) 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.	Auf1;Emt;miR-141/miR-146b-5p;p16INK4a;senescence
Aging alters tissue resident mesenchymal stem cell properties	E. U. Alt, et al.	2012	22265741	Tissue resident mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are known to participate in tissue regeneration that follows cell turnover, apoptosis, or necrosis. It has been long known that aging impedes an organism's repair/regeneration capabilities. In order to study the age associated changes, the molecular characteristics of adipose tissue derived MSCs (ASCs) from three age groups of healthy volunteers, i.e., young, middle aged, and aged were investigated. The number and multilineage differentiation potential of ASCs declined with age. Aging reduces the proliferative capacity along with increases in cellular senescence. A significant increase in quiescence of G2 and S phase was observed in ASCs from aged donors. The expression of genes related to senescence such as CHEK1 and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p16(ink4a) was increased with age, however genes of apoptosis were downregulated. Further, an age-dependent abnormality in the expression of DNA break repair genes was observed. Global microRNA analysis revealed an abnormal expression of mir-27b, mir-106a, mir-199a, and let-7. In ubiquitously distributed adipose tissue (and ASCs), aging brings about important alterations, which might be critical for tissue regeneration and homeostasis. Our findings therefore provide a better understanding of the mechanism(s) involved in stem cell aging and regenerative potential, and this in turn may affect tissue repair that declines with aging.	Adipose Tissue/ cytology;Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Aging/genetics/ physiology;Apoptosis/genetics;Cell Count;Cell Cycle/genetics;Cell Differentiation/genetics;Cell Lineage/genetics;Cell Proliferation;DNA Repair/genetics;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Humans;Male;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ cytology/metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;Transcriptome/genetics;Young Adult
MicroRNA expression profiling in blood from fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome patients	M. I. Alvarez-Mora, et al.	2013	23790110	Fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome (FXTAS) is a late-onset neurodegenerative disorder associated with FMR1 gene premutation alleles (55-200 CGG repeats). Fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome clinical core features include action tremor, gait ataxia, cognitive deficits progressing to dementia, and frequently parkinsonism. Although the pathogenic molecular mechanism of FXTAS is not completely understood, the restriction of the phenotype to the FMR1 premutation range has given rise to a model based on a RNA toxic gain-of-function. Since the identification of the first microRNAs (miRNAs) and their role in normal development, several studies have associated them with neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson, Alzheimer and Huntington diseases, suggesting that they play a key role in brain development, as well as in its morphogenesis. Herein, we present the characterization of miRNA expression profiles in FXTAS male patients using deep sequencing-based technologies and microarray technology. Deep sequencing analysis evidenced 83 miRNAs that were significantly deregulated whereas microarray analysis showed 31. When comparing these results, 14 miRNAs were found deregulated in FXTAS patients. MiR-424 and miR-574-3p showed significant fold change adjusted P-values in both platforms in FXTAS patients. MiR-424 has been founded substantially and specifically enriched in human cerebral cortical white matter of Alzheimer disease patients, which, together with cerebral atrophy, is a prominent imaging finding in individuals with FXTAS. The study provides the first systematic evidence of differential miRNA expression changes in FXTAS blood samples. Although further studies are necessary to better characterize the miRNA function in FXTAS disorder, our results suggest that they might contribute to its pathogenesis.	Aged;Case-Control Studies;Cerebellar Diseases/diagnosis/genetics;Fragile X Mental Retardation Protein/genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/chemistry;Middle Aged;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Sequence Analysis, DNA;Expression profile;FMR1 gene;Fxtas;IsomiR;high-throughput technologies;miRNAs;mitochondrial dysfunction;neurodegeneration;oxidative stress;trimming variants
Dissection of regulatory networks that are altered in disease via differential co-expression	D. Amar, et al.	2013	23505361	Comparing the gene-expression profiles of sick and healthy individuals can help in understanding disease. Such differential expression analysis is a well-established way to find gene sets whose expression is altered in the disease. Recent approaches to gene-expression analysis go a step further and seek differential co-expression patterns, wherein the level of co-expression of a set of genes differs markedly between disease and control samples. Such patterns can arise from a disease-related change in the regulatory mechanism governing that set of genes, and pinpoint dysfunctional regulatory networks. Here we present DICER, a new method for detecting differentially co-expressed gene sets using a novel probabilistic score for differential correlation. DICER goes beyond standard differential co-expression and detects pairs of modules showing differential co-expression. The expression profiles of genes within each module of the pair are correlated across all samples. The correlation between the two modules, however, differs markedly between the disease and normal samples. We show that DICER outperforms the state of the art in terms of significance and interpretability of the detected gene sets. Moreover, the gene sets discovered by DICER manifest regulation by disease-specific microRNA families. In a case study on Alzheimer's disease, DICER dissected biological processes and protein complexes into functional subunits that are differentially co-expressed, thereby revealing inner structures in disease regulatory networks.	Algorithms;Cluster Analysis;Communicable Diseases/genetics/metabolism;Computational Biology/ methods;Databases, Genetic;Gene Expression Profiling/ methods;Gene Regulatory Networks;Humans;Inflammatory Bowel Diseases/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs;Models, Biological;Neoplasms/genetics/metabolism;Neurodegenerative Diseases/genetics/metabolism;Protein Interaction Maps
Associations of circulating plasma microRNAs with age, body mass index and sex in a population-based study	S. Ameling, et al.	2015	26462558	BACKGROUND: Non-cellular blood circulating microRNAs (plasma miRNAs) represent a promising source for the development of prognostic and diagnostic tools owing to their minimally invasive sampling, high stability, and simple quantification by standard techniques such as RT-qPCR. So far, the majority of association studies involving plasma miRNAs were disease-specific case-control analyses. In contrast, in the present study, plasma miRNAs were analysed in a sample of 372 individuals from a population-based cohort study, the Study of Health in Pomerania (SHIP). METHODS: Quantification of miRNA levels was performed by RT-qPCR using the Exiqon Serum/Plasma Focus microRNA PCR Panel V3.M covering 179 different miRNAs. Of these, 155 were included in our analyses after quality-control. Associations between plasma miRNAs and the phenotypes age, body mass index (BMI), and sex were assessed via a two-step linear regression approach per miRNA. The first step regressed out the technical parameters and the second step determined the remaining associations between the respective plasma miRNA and the phenotypes of interest. RESULTS: After regressing out technical parameters and adjusting for the respective other two phenotypes, 7, 15, and 35 plasma miRNAs were significantly (q < 0.05) associated with age, BMI, and sex, respectively. Additional adjustment for the blood cell parameters identified 12 and 19 miRNAs to be significantly associated with age and BMI, respectively. Most of the BMI-associated miRNAs likely originate from liver. Sex-associated differences in miRNA levels were largely determined by differences in blood cell parameters. Thus, only 7 as compared to originally 35 sex-associated miRNAs displayed sex-specific differences after adjustment for blood cell parameters. CONCLUSIONS: These findings emphasize that circulating miRNAs are strongly impacted by age, BMI, and sex. Hence, these parameters should be considered as covariates in association studies based on plasma miRNA levels. The established experimental and computational workflow can now be used in future screening studies to determine associations of plasma miRNAs with defined disease phenotypes.	Adult;Aged;Aging/ blood/genetics;Blood Cells/metabolism;Body Mass Index;Cohort Studies;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood;Middle Aged;Phenotype;Sex Characteristics;Young Adult
Loss of motoneuron-specific microRNA-218 causes systemic neuromuscular failure	N. D. Amin, et al.	2015	26680198	Dysfunction of microRNA (miRNA) metabolism is thought to underlie diseases affecting motoneurons. One miRNA, miR-218, is abundantly and selectively expressed by developing and mature motoneurons. Here we show that mutant mice lacking miR-218 die neonatally and exhibit neuromuscular junction defects, motoneuron hyperexcitability, and progressive motoneuron cell loss, all of which are hallmarks of motoneuron diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and spinal muscular atrophy. Gene profiling reveals that miR-218 modestly represses a cohort of hundreds of genes that are neuronally enriched but are not specific to a single neuron subpopulation. Thus, the set of messenger RNAs targeted by miR-218, designated TARGET(218), defines a neuronal gene network that is selectively tuned down in motoneurons to prevent neuromuscular failure and neurodegeneration.	Animals;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Regulatory Networks;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/genetics/ physiology;Motor Neuron Disease/ genetics/physiopathology;Motor Neurons/metabolism/pathology/ physiology;Neurodegenerative Diseases/ genetics/pathology;Spinal Cord/metabolism/physiopathology
DeltaNp63alpha induces quiescence and downregulates the BRCA1 pathway in estrogen receptor-positive luminal breast cancer cell line MCF7 but not in other breast cancer cell lines	R. Amin, et al.	2016	26704768	Despite apparent resection of tumors, breast cancer patients often suffer relapse due to remnant dormant tumor cells. Although quiescence of cancer stem cells is thought as one of the mechanisms regulating dormancy, the mechanism underlying quiescence is unclear. Since DeltaNp63alpha, an isoform of p51/p63, is crucial in the maintenance of stem cells within mammary epithelium, we investigated its roles in the regulation of dormancy in normal and malignant breast cells. Inducible expression of DeltaNp63alpha in MCF7 estrogen receptor positive (ER+) luminal breast cancer cells led to quiescence and acquisition of progenitor-like properties. Judging from mRNA-microRNA microarray analysis, activation of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling and inhibition of Wnt signaling emerged as prominent mechanisms underlying DeltaNp63alpha-dependent induction of quiescence and acquisition of stemness in MCF7. More interestingly, through Ingenuity Pathway analysis, we found for the first time that BRCA1 pathway was the most significantly downregulated pathway by DeltaNp63alpha expression in quiescent MCF7 cells, where miR-205 was a downstream mediator. Furthermore, DeltaNp63alpha-expressing MCF7 cells exhibited resistance to paclitaxel and doxorubicin. Expression of DeltaNp63alpha in normal MCF10A basal cells increased proliferation and stemness, but did not affect more aggressive luminal (T47D) and basal (MDA-MB-231) cells with p53 mutation. Gene expression datasets analyses suggested that DeltaNp63 expression is associated with relapse-free survival of luminal A/B-type patients, but not of the other subtypes. Our results established a cell type-specific function of DeltaNp63alpha in induction of quiescence and downregulation of the BRCA1 pathway which suggested a role of DeltaNp63alpha in the dormancy of luminal breast cancers.	BRCA1 Protein/ biosynthesis/genetics;Breast Neoplasms/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Cell Proliferation/genetics;Down-Regulation;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;MCF-7 Cells;Protein Isoforms/genetics/metabolism;Receptors, Estrogen/genetics/ metabolism;Transcription Factors/genetics/ metabolism;Tumor Suppressor Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Breast cancer;Dormancy;Quiescence;Stem cell;p63
Titrated extract of Centella asiatica provides a UVB protective effect by altering microRNA expression profiles in human dermal fibroblasts	I. S. An, et al.	2012	22948173	The titrated extract of Centella asiatica (TECA) is a reconstituted mixture comprising of asiatic acid, madecassic acid, asiaticoside and madecassoside, and is used as a therapeutic agent in wound healing and also as an anti-microbial, anticancer and anti-aging agent. Although these properties and the associated cell signaling pathways have been elucidated, the cellular mechanism of anti-photoaging upon ultraviolet (UV) exposure in normal human dermal fibroblasts (NHDFs) remains unknown. In this study, we investigated the photoprotective role of TECA via microRNA (miRNA) expression profiling analysis. Low dose of TECA did not exhibit toxicity and showed a protective effect against UVB irradiation in NDHFs. miRNA microarray experiments revealed that specific miRNAs were altered by TECA stimulation in UVB-irradiated NHDFs. Functional bioinformatic analysis showed that the putative target genes of the altered miRNAs were associated with the positive regulation of cell proliferation, anti-apoptosis, small GTPase- and Ras-mediated signal transduction and activation of MAPKK. Therefore, these results suggest that TECA may serve as a potential natural chemoprotective agent against UVB-mediated damage in NHDFs through changes in the expression of specific miRNAs.	Apoptosis/drug effects/genetics;Cell Survival/drug effects/radiation effects;Cells, Cultured;Dermis/cytology;Fibroblasts/ drug effects/radiation effects;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Plant Extracts/ pharmacology;RNA Interference;Radiation-Protective Agents/ pharmacology;Transcriptome/ drug effects;Triterpenes/ pharmacology;Ultraviolet Rays
Sulforaphane exerts its anti-inflammatory effect against amyloid-beta peptide via STAT-1 dephosphorylation and activation of Nrf2/HO-1 cascade in human THP-1 macrophages	Y. W. An, et al.	2016	26827637	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder worldwide, accounting for most cases of dementia in elderly individuals, and effective therapies are still lacking. This study was designed to investigate the anti-inflammatory properties of sulforaphane against Abeta1-42 monomers in human THP-1 microglia-like cells. The results showed that sulforaphane preferentially inhibited cathepsin B- and caspase-1-dependent NLRP3 inflammasome activation induced by mostly Abeta1-42 monomers, an effect that potently reduced excessive secretion of the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta). Subsequent mechanistic studies revealed that sulforaphane mitigated the activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 induced by Abeta1-42 monomers. Sulforaphane also increased nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) nuclear translocation, which was followed by upregulation of heme-oxygenase 1 (HO-1). The anti-inflammatory effect of sulforaphane on Abeta1-42-induced IL-1beta production was diminished by small interfering RNA-mediated knockdown of Nrf2 or HO-1. Moreover, sulforaphane significantly attenuated the levels of microRNA-146a, which is selectively upregulated in the temporal cortex and hippocampus of AD brains. The aforementioned effects of sulforaphane were replicated by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor, herbimycin A, and Nrf2 activator. These results indicate that signal transducer and activator of transcription-1 dephosphorylation, HO-1 and its upstream effector, Nrf2, play a pivotal role in triggering an anti-inflammatory signaling cascade of sulforaphane that results in decreases of IL-1beta release and microRNA-146a production in Abeta1-42-stimulated human microglia-like cells. These findings suggest that the phytochemical sulforaphane has a potential application in AD therapeutics.	Alzheimer Disease/drug therapy;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ antagonists & inhibitors/metabolism;Anti-Inflammatory Agents/ pharmacology/therapeutic use;Cathepsin B/metabolism;Cell Line;Heme Oxygenase-1/ metabolism;Humans;Isothiocyanates/ pharmacology/therapeutic use;Macrophages/ metabolism;NF-E2-Related Factor 2/ metabolism;NLR Family, Pyrin Domain-Containing 3 Protein/metabolism;Peptide Fragments/ antagonists & inhibitors/metabolism;Phosphorylation/drug effects;Phytotherapy;STAT1 Transcription Factor/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Alzheimer's disease;NLRP3 inflammasome;Nrf2/HO-1;Stat-1;Sulforaphane;miRNA-146a
Serum MicroRNA Signatures in Migraineurs During Attacks and in Pain-Free Periods	H. H. Andersen, et al.	2016	25636687	MicroRNAs have emerged as important biomarkers and modulators of pathophysiological processes including oncogenesis and neurodegeneration. MicroRNAs are found to be involved in the generation and maintenance of pain in animal models of inflammation and neuropathic pain. Recently, microRNA dysregulation has been reported in patients with painful conditions such as complex regional pain syndrome and fibromyalgia. The aim of this study was to assess whether serum microRNA alterations occur during migraine attacks and whether migraine manifests in chronic serum microRNA aberrations. Two cohorts of 24 migraineurs, and age- and sex-matched healthy controls were included. High-content serum microRNA (miRNA) arrays were used to assess the serum microRNA profiles of migraineurs during attacks and pain-free periods in comparison with healthy controls. Of the 372 assessed microRNAs, 32 or approximately 8% were found to be differentially expressed and 4 of these--miR-34a-5p, 29c-5p, -382-5p, and -26b-3p--were selected for further investigation. Migraine attacks were associated with an acute upregulation in miR-34a-5p and miR-382-5p expression. Interestingly, miR-382-5p not only exhibited an upregulation during attack but also proved to be a biomarker for migraine when comparing migraineurs in pain-free periods to the healthy control group (p = <0.01). In conclusion, migraine manifestation is reflected in serum miRNA aberrations, both during attacks and pain-free periods. This finding sheds light on the potential role of microRNAs in the pathophysiology of migraine and adds a new approach towards potential identification of much sought-after serum biomarkers of migraine.	Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Biomarkers;Case-Control Studies;Computer Simulation;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/genetics;Middle Aged;Migraine Disorders/ blood/genetics/physiopathology;Models, Genetic;Receptors, GABA/genetics;Up-Regulation;Young Adult;Biomarker;Headache;MicroRNA;Migraine;Serum
A role for dicer in aging and stress survival	R. M. Anderson	2012	22958915	The link between aging and stress resistance is well established, but the nature of this relationship and which mechanisms are shared is still unknown. Mori et al. (2012) demonstrate that microRNA processing, specifically in adipose tissues, is a major component in aging and stress survival.	
Regulation of Connective Tissue Growth Factor and Cardiac Fibrosis by an SRF/MicroRNA-133a Axis	A. Angelini, et al.	2015	26440278	Myocardial fibrosis contributes to the remodeling of heart and the loss of cardiac function leading to heart failure. SRF is a transcription factor implicated in the regulation of a large variety of genes involved in cardiac structure and function. To investigate the impact of an SRF overexpression in heart, we developed a new cardiac-specific and tamoxifen-inducible SRF overexpression mouse model by the Cre/loxP strategy. Here, we report that a high level overexpression of SRF leads to severe modifications of cardiac cytoarchitecture affecting the balance between cardiomyocytes and cardiac fibroblasts and also a profound alteration of cardiac gene expression program. The drastic development of fibrosis was characterized by intense sirius red staining and associated with an increased expression of genes encoding extracellular matrix proteins such as fibronectin, procollagen type 1alpha1 and type 3alpha1 and especially connective tissue growth factor (CTGF). Furthermore miR-133a, one of the most predominant cardiac miRNAs, is strongly downregulated when SRF is overexpressed. By comparison a low level overexpression of SRF has minor impact on these different processes. Investigation with miR-133a, antimiR-133a and AdSRF-VP16 experiments in H9c2 cardiac cells demonstrated that: 1)-miR-133a acts as a repressor of SRF and CTGF expression; 2)-a simultaneous overexpression of SRF by AdSRF-VP16 and inhibition of miR-133a by a specific antimiR increase CTGF expression; 3)-miR-133a overexpression can block the upregulation of CTGF induced by AdSRF-VP16. Taken together, these findings reveal a key role of the SRF/CTGF/miR-133a axis in the regulation of cardiac fibrosis.	Animals;Cell Line;Connective Tissue Growth Factor/genetics/ metabolism;Extracellular Matrix Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Fibrosis/ metabolism/pathology;Gene Expression Regulation;Heart Diseases/ metabolism/pathology;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Myocardium/ metabolism/pathology;Myocytes, Cardiac/metabolism;Rats;Serum Response Factor/genetics/ metabolism
Deregulation of miR-93 and miR-143 in human esophageal cancer	M. H. Ansari, et al.	2016	26427659	Esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) is the second and third most common malignancy in Iranian males and females, respectively. Treatment of ESCC is largely ineffective due to lack of detection at early stages of the disease. In recent years, miRNA, a small RNA molecule, has drawn much attention to researchers as a potential biomarker for esophageal cancer. miR-93 and miR-143 are two miRNA molecules reported to be frequently deregulated in various cancers, including prostate, stomach, cervix, and etc. The purpose of this study was to investigate the expression levels of these miRNAs and evaluate their diagnostic and therapeutic potential in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. In this study, total RNA was extracted from 30 tumor tissues and 30 nontumor tissues of esophageal tumor margins, using RNX-plus solution. After validating the quality and quantity of total RNA, cDNAs of interest were synthesized using microRNA-specific cDNA Synthesis Kit. The expression level of miR-93 and miR-143 was evaluated using quantitative real-time PCR with miRNA-specific primers. Finally, the obtained data was analyzed by SPSS ver.20 software and paired t test was performed to observe the significance of difference between groups. The expression level of miR-93 was significantly increased and of miR-143 was significantly decreased in most of the examined tumor tissues, compared to nontumor tissues. Also, our findings did not detect correlation between mir-93 and mir-143 expressions in regard to stage and grade of the samples. These findings suggest that the deregulation of these miRNAs may play an important role in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. Both miR-93 and miR-143 might be used as potential biomarkers in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma. However, more studies with large population of samples are necessary.	Aged;Carcinoma, Squamous Cell/etiology/ genetics;Esophageal Neoplasms/etiology/ genetics;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Middle Aged;Adenocarcinoma of the esophagus;Esophageal cancer;Squamous cell carcinoma;miR-143;miR-93
Frontier impact of microRNAs in skeletal muscle research: a future perspective	W. Aoi	2014	25601837	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are non-coding RNAs that can regulate the expression of mRNAs and proteins by degrading mRNA molecules or by inhibiting their translation. It has been predicted that miRNAs regulate approximately 60% of protein-coding genes that could be involved in a wide range of biological processes. Research over the last 5 years suggests that miRNAs play important roles in skeletal muscle function and several miRNAs have been identified as modulators of myogenesis, muscle mass, and nutrient metabolism in physiological and pathological states. In addition, some miRNAs can be incorporated into intracellular vesicles, released into the circulation, transported to other cells, and possibly function in other organs in an endocrine manner. This phenomenon might explain the interactions between skeletal muscles and other organs. Thus, far, several muscle-secreted miRNAs have been identified and their involvement in muscle biology has been debated. Based on the recent understanding, this perspective article describes the potential valuable role of miRNAs in skeletal muscle function, delineates its limitations, and outlines its future perspectives.	aging and longetivity;exercise;exosomes;microRNAs;skeletal muscle
A bioinformatics analysis of Lamin-A regulatory network: a perspective on epigenetic involvement in Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome	W. Arancio	2012	22533413	Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS) is a rare human genetic disease that leads to premature aging. HGPS is caused by mutation in the Lamin-A (LMNA) gene that leads, in affected young individuals, to the accumulation of the progerin protein, usually present only in aging differentiated cells. Bioinformatics analyses of the network of interactions of the LMNA gene and transcripts are presented. The LMNA gene network has been analyzed using the BioGRID database (http://thebiogrid.org/) and related analysis tools such as Osprey (http://biodata.mshri.on.ca/osprey/servlet/Index) and GeneMANIA ( http://genemania.org/). The network of interaction of LMNA transcripts has been further analyzed following the competing endogenous (ceRNA) hypotheses (RNA cross-talk via microRNAs [miRNAs]) and using the miRWalk database and tools (www.ma.uni-heidelberg.de/apps/zmf/mirwalk/). These analyses suggest particular relevance of epigenetic modifiers (via acetylase complexes and specifically HTATIP histone acetylase) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-dependent chromatin remodelers (via pBAF, BAF, and SWI/SNF complexes).	Adenosine Triphosphate/metabolism;Aging;Chromatin/metabolism;Computational Biology/ methods;Databases, Genetic;Epigenesis, Genetic;Gene Regulatory Networks;Humans;Lamin Type A/ metabolism;Male;Models, Biological;Models, Genetic;Progeria/ genetics/metabolism;Prostatic Neoplasms/metabolism;Software
A ceRNA analysis on LMNA gene focusing on the Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome	W. Arancio, et al.	2013	23317481	UNLABELLED: BACKGROUND: Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome is a rare dominant human disease of genetic origin. The average life expectancy is about 20 years, patients' life quality is still very poor and no efficient therapy has yet been developed. It is caused by mutation of the LMNA gene, which results in accumulation in the nuclear membrane of a particular splicing form of Lamin-A called progerin. The mechanism by which progerin perturbs cellular homeostasis and leads to the symptoms is still under debate.Micro-RNAs are able to negatively regulate transcription by coupling with the 3' UnTranslated Region of messenger RNAs. Several Micro-RNAs recognize the same 3' UnTranslated Region and each Micro-RNA can recognize multiple 3' UnTranslated Regions of different messenger RNAs. When different messenger RNAs are co-regulated via a similar panel of micro-RNAs, these messengers are called Competing Endogenous RNAs, or ceRNAs.The 3' UnTranslated Region of the longest LMNA transcript was analysed looking for its ceRNAs. The aim of this study was to search for candidate genes and gene ontology functions possibly influenced by LMNA mutations that may exert a role in progeria development. RESULTS: 11 miRNAs were isolated as potential LMNA regulators. By computational analysis, the miRNAs pointed to 17 putative LMNA ceRNAs. Gene ontology analysis of isolated ceRNAs showed an enrichment in RNA interference and control of cell cycle functions. CONCLUSION: This study isolated novel genes and functions potentially involved in LMNA network of regulation that could be involved in laminopathies such as the Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome.	
Dietary apigenin reduces LPS-induced expression of miR-155 restoring immune balance during inflammation	D. Arango, et al.	2015	25641956	SCOPE: High incidence of inflammatory diseases afflicts the increasing aging-population infringing a great health burden. Dietary flavonoids, including the flavone apigenin, are emerging as important anti-inflammatory nutraceuticals due to their health benefits, lack of adverse effects and reduced costs. MicroRNAs (miRs) play a central role in inflammation by regulating gene expression, yet how dietary ingredients affect miRs is poorly understood. The aim of this study was to identify miRs involved in the anti-inflammatory activity of apigenin and apigenin-rich diets and determine their immune regulatory mechanisms in macrophages and in vivo. METHODS AND RESULTS: A high-throughput quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR screen of 312 miRs in macrophages revealed that apigenin reduced LPS-induced miR-155 expression. Analyses of miR-155 precursor and primary transcript indicated that apigenin regulated miR-155 transcriptionally. Apigenin-reduced expression of miR-155 led to the increase of anti-inflammatory regulators forkhead box O3a and smooth-muscle-actin and MAD-related protein 2 in LPS-treated macrophages. In vivo, apigenin or a celery-based apigenin-rich diet reduced LPS-induced expression of miR-155 and decreased tumor necrosis factor alpha in lungs from LPS-treated mice. CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate that apigenin and apigenin-rich diets exert effective anti-inflammatory activity in vivo by reducing LPS-induced expression of miR-155, thereby restoring immune balance.	Animals;Anti-Inflammatory Agents/ pharmacology;Apigenin/ pharmacology;Apium graveolens/chemistry;Cell Line, Tumor;Diet;Gene Expression Regulation;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Inflammation/ drug therapy;Lipopolysaccharides/adverse effects;Macrophages/drug effects/metabolism;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha/genetics/metabolism;Flavonoids;Macrophages;MicroRNAs;NF-kappaB;Sepsis
MicroRNA-124 modulates social behavior in frontotemporal dementia	A. E. Arrant and E. D. Roberson	2014	25473917	Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a neurodegenerative disease that causes social dysfunction and other symptoms. A new study suggests that social dysfunction in FTD is due to decreased microRNA-124 expression and resulting changes in glutamate receptor composition in the prefrontal cortex.	Animals;Behavior, Animal;Endosomal Sorting Complexes Required for Transport/ genetics;Frontal Lobe/ metabolism;Frontotemporal Dementia/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ genetics;Neurons/ metabolism;Receptors, AMPA/ metabolism;Social Behavior
Trasferrin receptor 2 gene regulation by microRNA 221 in SH-SY5Y cells treated with MPP(+) as Parkinson's disease cellular model	R. Asci, et al.	2013	24055409	Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most frequent human neurodegenerations. The neurodegeneration in PD is related to cellular iron increase but the mechanisms involved in iron accumulation remain unclear. Transferrin receptor type 2 (TFR2) is a protein expressed on cell membrane and involved in the cellular iron uptake. We hypothesized that microRNA 221 could regulate the expression of TfR2 in an in vitro model of Parkinson's disease, SH-SY5Y cells treated with MPP(+). The miRNA 221 was selected by in silico analysis of several miRNAs predicted to target the TFR2 gene in SHSY5Y cells treated with MPP(+). Taqman miRNA assay was used to evaluate the expression of the selected miRNAs. Using a luciferase assay we demonstrated the inhibition of TFR2 by miRNA 221. We show that in PD cellular model, TFR2 expression is regulated by miRNA 221. TFR2 and miR 221 are inversely correlated in SHSY5Y cells during the treatment with MPP(+). Moreover, overexpression of miRNA 221 decreases the expression of TFR2, respectively, at the mRNA and protein levels. The inhibition of endogenous miRNA 221 also is able to regulate TFR2. These data suggest that miRNA 221 regulate TFR2 in PD model.	Cell Line, Tumor;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;MPTP Poisoning/chemically induced/ genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Receptors, Transferrin/ genetics/metabolism;Iron metabolism;MicroRNA-221;Parkinson's disease;TfR2
A Promising Future for Prostate Cancer Diagnostics	S. J. Assinder and V. Bhoopalan	2017	28106714	It has been estimated that globally there is a death attributable to prostate cancer every four minutes. As life expectancy in all world regions increases, so too incidence of this disease of the ageing male will increase. For many men diagnosis occurs after presentation with symptoms of altered urinary dynamics. Unfortunately, these changes, whilst also associated with benign disease, are evident quite late in the aetiology of prostate cancer. Early detection provides for better management and prognosis. This Special Issue provides an up to date view of the advances made towards early diagnosis and prognosis. It provides reviews of advanced imaging techniques (e.g., multiparametric MRI and protocols), and of biomaterials and molecular biomarkers currently being explored (e.g., microRNAs, proteomics) and the technologies that are revolutionizing this field. It describes the multi-disciplinary approaches that are essential to inexpensive, deliverable and accurate platforms for prostate cancer diagnostics.	223RaCl2;Percist;Pi-rads;[18F]-NaF PET/CT;carbon nanotube technologies;circulating tumour cells;diffusion weighted imaging;oncosomal DNAs and RNAs;oncosomes;quantum dot multiplex arrays
Computational identification and experimental validation of microRNAs binding to the Alzheimer-related gene ADAM10	R. Augustin, et al.	2012	22594617	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are post-transcriptional regulators involved in numerous biological processes including the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A key gene of AD, ADAM10, controls the proteolytic processing of APP and the formation of the amyloid plaques and is known to be regulated by miRNA in hepatic cancer cell lines. To predict miRNAs regulating ADAM10 expression concerning AD, we developed a computational approach. METHODS: MiRNA binding sites in the human ADAM10 3' untranslated region were predicted using the RNA22, RNAhybrid and miRanda programs and ranked by specific selection criteria with respect to AD such as differential regulation in AD patients and tissue-specific expression. Furthermore, target genes of miR-103, miR-107 and miR-1306 were derived from six publicly available miRNA target site prediction databases. Only target genes predicted in at least four out of six databases in the case of miR-103 and miR-107 were compared to genes listed in the AlzGene database including genes possibly involved in AD. In addition, the target genes were used for Gene Ontology analysis and literature mining. Finally, we used a luciferase assay to verify the potential effect of these three miRNAs on ADAM10 3'UTR in SH-SY5Y cells. RESULTS: Eleven miRNAs were selected, which have evolutionary conserved binding sites. Three of them (miR-103, miR-107, miR-1306) were further analysed as they are linked to AD and most strictly conserved between different species. Predicted target genes of miR-103 (p-value = 0.0065) and miR-107 (p-value = 0.0009) showed significant overlap with the AlzGene database except for miR-1306. Interactions between miR-103 and miR-107 to genes were revealed playing a role in processes leading to AD. ADAM10 expression in the reporter assay was reduced by miR-1306 (28%), miR-103 (45%) and miR-107 (52%). CONCLUSIONS: Our approach shows the requirement of incorporating specific, disease-associated selection criteria into the prediction process to reduce the amount of false positive predictions. In summary, our method identified three miRNAs strongly suggested to be involved in AD, which possibly regulate ADAM10 expression and hence offer possibilities for the development of therapeutic treatments of AD.	3' Untranslated Regions/ genetics;ADAM Proteins/ genetics;ADAM10 Protein;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/metabolism;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/ genetics;Computational Biology;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Luciferases/metabolism;Membrane Proteins/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Neuroblastoma/ genetics/metabolism;Tumor Cells, Cultured
Time is of the essence: microRNAs and age-associated neurodegeneration	S. Aw and S. M. Cohen	2012	22491478	Aging is a key risk factor in neurodegenerative disease; however, little is known about cellular pathways that mediate age-associated degeneration of the brain. The Bonini lab has identified a conserved microRNA, miR-34, that plays a neuroprotective role in the aging Drosophila brain and suggests that it functions in temporal control of gene expression.	Aging;Animals;Behavior, Animal/physiology;Brain/metabolism/ pathology;Cell Aging;Drosophila/genetics/ metabolism;Drosophila Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neurodegenerative Diseases/genetics/ metabolism;Risk Factors;Time Factors;Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism
A Glio-Protective Role of mir-263a by Tuning Sensitivity to Glutamate	S. S. Aw, et al.	2017	28564598	Glutamate is a ubiquitous neurotransmitter, mediating information flow between neurons. Defects in the regulation of glutamatergic transmission can result in glutamate toxicity, which is associated with neurodegeneration. Interestingly, glutamate receptors are expressed in glia, but little is known about their function, and the effects of their misregulation, in these non-neuronal cells. Here, we report a glio-protective role for Drosophila mir-263a mediated by its regulation of glutamate receptor levels in glia. mir-263a mutants exhibit a pronounced movement defect due to aberrant overexpression of CG5621/Grik, Nmdar1, and Nmdar2. mir-263a mutants exhibit excitotoxic death of a subset of astrocyte-like and ensheathing glia in the CNS. Glial-specific normalization of glutamate receptor levels restores cell numbers and suppresses the movement defect. Therefore, microRNA-mediated regulation of glutamate receptor levels protects glia from excitotoxicity, ensuring CNS health. Chronic low-level glutamate receptor overexpression due to mutations affecting microRNA (miRNA) regulation might contribute to glial dysfunction and CNS impairment.	Drosophila;astrocyte;climbing defects;excitotoxicity;glia;glutamate;microRNA;movement disorder;neurodegeneration
Drosophila Argonaute 1 and its miRNA biogenesis partners are required for oocyte formation and germline cell division	G. Azzam, et al.	2012	22445511	Argonaute 1 (Ago1) is a member of the Argonaute/PIWI protein family involved in small RNA-mediated gene regulation. In Drosophila, Ago1 plays a specific role in microRNA (miRNA) biogenesis and function. Previous studies have demonstrated that Ago1 regulates the fate of germline stem cells. However, the function of Ago1 in other aspects of oogenesis is still elusive. Here we report the function of Ago1 in developing egg chambers. We find that Ago1 protein is enriched in the oocytes and is also highly expressed in the cytoplasm of follicle cells. Clonal analysis of multiple ago1 mutant alleles shows that many mutant egg chambers contain only 8 nurse cells without an oocyte which is phenocopied in dicer-1, pasha and drosha mutants. Our results suggest that Ago1 and its miRNA biogenesis partners play a role in oocyte determination and germline cell division in Drosophila.	Aging/genetics/metabolism;Animals;Argonaute Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Cell Differentiation;Drosophila Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Drosophila melanogaster/genetics/ growth & development/metabolism;Female;Germ-Line Mutation;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Oocytes/ cytology;RNA Helicases/genetics/metabolism;RNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Ribonuclease III/genetics/metabolism
miFRame: analysis and visualization of miRNA sequencing data in neurological disorders	C. Backes, et al.	2015	26169944	BACKGROUND: While in the past decades nucleic acid analysis has been predominantly carried out using quantitative low- and high-throughput approaches such as qRT-PCR and microarray technology, next-generation sequencing (NGS) with its single base resolution is now frequently applied in DNA and RNA testing. Especially for small non-coding RNAs such as microRNAs there is a need for analysis and visualization tools that facilitate interpretation of the results also for clinicians. METHODS: We developed miFRame, which supports the analysis of human small RNA NGS data. Our tool carries out different data analyses for known as well as predicted novel mature microRNAs from known precursors and presents the results in a well interpretable manner. Analyses include among others expression analysis of precursors and mature miRNAs, detection of novel precursors and detection of potential iso-microRNAs. Aggregation of results from different users moreover allows for evaluation whether remarkable results, such as novel mature miRNAs, are indeed specific for the respective experimental set-up or are frequently detected across a broad range of experiments. RESULTS: We demonstrate the capabilities of miFRame, which is freely available at http://www.ccb.uni-saarland.de/miframe on two studies, circulating biomarker screening for Multiple Sclerosis (cohort includes clinically isolated syndrome, relapse remitting MS, matched controls) as well as Alzheimer Disease (cohort includes Alzheimer Disease, Mild Cognitive Impairment, matched controls). Here, our tool allowed for an improved biomarker discovery by identifying likely false positive marker candidates.	Alzheimer Disease/genetics;Base Sequence;Computational Biology/ methods;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Multiple Sclerosis/genetics;Nervous System Diseases/ genetics;Protein Isoforms/genetics/metabolism;Sequence Analysis, RNA/ methods;Software
MicroRNA-34a Induces Vascular Smooth Muscle Cells Senescence by SIRT1 Downregulation and Promotes the Expression of Age-Associated Pro-inflammatory Secretory Factors	I. Badi, et al.	2015	25352462	Arterial aging is a major risk factor for the occurrence of cardiovascular diseases. The aged artery is characterized by endothelial dysfunction and vascular smooth muscle cells altered physiology together with low-grade chronic inflammation. MicroRNA-34a (miR-34a) has been recently implicated in cardiac, endothelial, and endothelial progenitor cell senescence; however, its contribution to aging-associated vascular smooth muscle cells phenotype has not been explored so far. We found that miR-34a was highly expressed in aortas isolated from old mice. Moreover, its well-known target, the longevity-associated protein SIRT1, was significantly downregulated during aging in both endothelial cells and vascular smooth muscle cells. Increased miR-34a as well as decreased SIRT1 expression was also observed in replicative-senescent human aortic smooth muscle cells. miR-34a overexpression in proliferative human aortic smooth muscle cells caused cell cycle arrest along with enhanced p21 protein levels and evidence of cell senescence. Furthermore, miR-34a ectopic expression induced pro-inflammatory senescence-associated secretory phenotype molecules. Finally, SIRT1 protein significantly decreased upon miR-34a overexpression and restoration of its levels rescued miR-34a-dependent human aortic smooth muscle cells senescence, but not senescence-associated secretory phenotype factors upregulation. Taken together, our findings suggest that aging-associated increase of miR-34a expression levels, by promoting vascular smooth muscle cells senescence and inflammation through SIRT1 downregulation and senescence-associated secretory phenotype factors induction, respectively, may lead to arterial dysfunctions.	Animals;Aorta/ metabolism/pathology;Cell Aging/ physiology;Cell Culture Techniques;Endothelial Cells/physiology;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Myocytes, Smooth Muscle/ physiology;Sirtuin 1/genetics/ metabolism;Inflammation.;MiR-34a;Sasp;Sirt1;Vascular aging
Arctiin blocks hydrogen peroxide-induced senescence and cell death though microRNA expression changes in human dermal papilla cells	S. Bae, et al.	2014	25299961	BACKGROUND: Accumulating evidence indicates that reactive oxygen species (ROS) are an important etiological factor for the induction of dermal papilla cell senescence and hair loss, which is also known alopecia. Arctiin is an active lignin isolated from Arctium lappa and has anti-inflammation, anti-microbial, and anti-carcinogenic effects. In the present study, we found that arctiin exerts anti-oxidative effects on human hair dermal papilla cells (HHDPCs). RESULTS: To better understand the mechanism, we analyzed the level of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2)-induced cytotoxicity, cell death, ROS production and senescence after arctiin pretreatment of HHDPCs. The results showed that arctiin pretreatment significantly inhibited the H2O2-induced reduction in cell viability. Moreover, H2O2-induced sub-G1 phase accumulation and G2 cell cycle arrest were also downregulated by arctiin pretreatment. Interestingly, the increase in intracellular ROS mediated by H2O2 was drastically decreased in HHDPCs cultured in the presence of arctiin. This effect was confirmed by senescence associated-beta galactosidase (SA-beta-gal) assay results; we found that arctiin pretreatment impaired H2O2-induced senescence in HHDPCs. Using microRNA (miRNA) microarray and bioinformatic analysis, we showed that this anti-oxidative effect of arctiin in HHDPCs was related with mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and Wnt signaling pathways. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our data suggest that arctiin has a protective effect on ROS-induced cell dysfunction in HHDPCs and may therefore be useful for alopecia prevention and treatment strategies.	Aging/drug effects/ metabolism;Cell Cycle Checkpoints/drug effects;Cell Death/drug effects;Cell Line;Cell Survival/drug effects;Dermis/cytology/drug effects/metabolism;Down-Regulation/drug effects;Furans/ pharmacology;Glucosides/ pharmacology;Hair Follicle/cytology/ drug effects/metabolism;Humans;Hydrogen Peroxide/pharmacology;MicroRNAs/drug effects/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Reactive Oxygen Species/ antagonists & inhibitors;Up-Regulation/drug effects;beta-Galactosidase/analysis
Muscle-specific and age-related changes in protein synthesis and protein degradation in response to hindlimb unloading in rats	L. M. Baehr, et al.	2017	28336537	Disuse is a potent inducer of muscle atrophy, but the molecular mechanisms driving this loss of muscle mass are highly debated. In particular, the extent to which disuse triggers decreases in protein synthesis or increases in protein degradation, and whether these changes are uniform across muscles or influenced by age, is unclear. We aimed to determine the impact of disuse on protein synthesis and protein degradation in lower limb muscles of varied function and fiber type in adult and old rats. Alterations in protein synthesis and degradation were measured in the soleus, medial gastrocnemius, and tibialis anterior (TA) muscles of adult and old rats subjected to hindlimb unloading (HU) for 3, 7, or 14 days. Loss of muscle mass was progressive during the unloading period, but highly variable (-9 to -38%) across muscle types and between ages. Protein synthesis decreased significantly in all muscles, except for the old TA. Atrophy-associated gene expression was only loosely associated with protein degradation as muscle RING finger-1, muscle atrophy F-box (MAFbx), and Forkhead box O1 expression significantly increased in all muscles, but an increase in proteasome activity was only observed in the adult soleus. MAFbx protein levels were significantly higher in the old muscles compared with adult muscles, despite the old having higher expression of microRNA-23a. These results indicate that adult and old muscles respond similarly to HU, and the greatest loss in muscle mass occurs in predominantly slow-twitch extensor muscles due to a concomitant decrease in protein synthesis and increase in protein degradation.NEW & NOTEWORTHY In this study, we showed that age did not intensify the atrophy response to unloading in rats, but rather that the degree of atrophy was highly variable across muscles, indicating that changes in protein synthesis and protein degradation occur in a muscle-specific manner. Our data emphasize the importance of studying muscles of varying fiber-type and physiological function at multiple time points to fully understand the molecular mechanisms responsible for disuse atrophy.	aging;miR-23a;muscle atrophy;proteasome
Detecting miRNA Mentions and Relations in Biomedical Literature	S. Bagewadi, et al.	2014	26535109	INTRODUCTION: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have demonstrated their potential as post-transcriptional gene expression regulators, participating in a wide spectrum of regulatory events such as apoptosis, differentiation, and stress response. Apart from the role of miRNAs in normal physiology, their dysregulation is implicated in a vast array of diseases. Dissection of miRNA-related associations are valuable for contemplating their mechanism in diseases, leading to the discovery of novel miRNAs for disease prognosis, diagnosis, and therapy. MOTIVATION: Apart from databases and prediction tools, miRNA-related information is largely available as unstructured text. Manual retrieval of these associations can be labor-intensive due to steadily growing number of publications. Additionally, most of the published miRNA entity recognition methods are keyword based, further subjected to manual inspection for retrieval of relations. Despite the fact that several databases host miRNA-associations derived from text, lower sensitivity and lack of published details for miRNA entity recognition and associated relations identification has motivated the need for developing comprehensive methods that are freely available for the scientific community. Additionally, the lack of a standard corpus for miRNA-relations has caused difficulty in evaluating the available systems. We propose methods to automatically extract mentions of miRNAs, species, genes/proteins, disease, and relations from scientific literature. Our generated corpora, along with dictionaries, and miRNA regular expression are freely available for academic purposes. To our knowledge, these resources are the most comprehensive developed so far. RESULTS: The identification of specific miRNA mentions reaches a recall of 0.94 and precision of 0.93. Extraction of miRNA-disease and miRNA-gene relations lead to an F 1 score of up to 0.76. A comparison of the information extracted by our approach to the databases miR2Disease and miRSel for the extraction of Alzheimer's disease related relations shows the capability of our proposed methods in identifying correct relations with improved sensitivity. The published resources and described methods can help the researchers for maximal retrieval of miRNA-relations and generation of miRNA-regulatory networks. AVAILABILITY: The training and test corpora, annotation guidelines, developed dictionaries, and supplementary files are available at http://www.scai.fraunhofer.de/mirna-corpora.html.	MicroRNAs;corpus;prediction algorithms
Chronic DNA Replication Stress Reduces Replicative Lifespan of Cells by TRP53-Dependent, microRNA-Assisted MCM2-7 Downregulation	G. Bai, et al.	2016	26765334	Circumstances that compromise efficient DNA replication, such as disruptions to replication fork progression, cause a state known as DNA replication stress (RS). Whereas normally proliferating cells experience low levels of RS, excessive RS from intrinsic or extrinsic sources can trigger cell cycle arrest and senescence. Here, we report that a key driver of RS-induced senescence is active downregulation of the Minichromosome Maintenance 2-7 (MCM2-7) factors that are essential for replication origin licensing and which constitute the replicative helicase core. Proliferating cells produce high levels of MCM2-7 that enable formation of dormant origins that can be activated in response to acute, experimentally-induced RS. However, little is known about how physiological RS levels impact MCM2-7 regulation. We found that chronic exposure of primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) to either genetically-encoded or environmentally-induced RS triggered gradual MCM2-7 repression, followed by inhibition of replication and senescence that could be accelerated by MCM hemizygosity. The MCM2-7 reduction in response to RS is TRP53-dependent, and involves a group of Trp53-dependent miRNAs, including the miR-34 family, that repress MCM expression in replication-stressed cells before they undergo terminal cell cycle arrest. miR-34 ablation partially rescued MCM2-7 downregulation and genomic instability in mice with endogenous RS. Together, these data demonstrate that active MCM2-7 repression is a physiologically important mechanism for RS-induced cell cycle arrest and genome maintenance on an organismal level.	Animals;Cell Cycle Checkpoints/genetics;Cell Proliferation/genetics;DNA Replication/ genetics;Fibroblasts/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Genomic Instability;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Minichromosome Maintenance Proteins/biosynthesis/ genetics
miR-335 and miR-34a Promote renal senescence by suppressing mitochondrial antioxidative enzymes	X. Y. Bai, et al.	2011	21719785	The molecular basis for aging of the kidney is not well understood. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) contribute to processes such as development, differentiation, and apoptosis, but their contribution to the aging process is unknown. Here, we analyzed the miRNA expression profile of young (3-month) and old (24-month) rat kidneys and identified the biologic pathways and genes regulated by differentially expressed miRNAs. We observed upregulation of 18 miRNAs with aging, mainly regulating the genes associated with energy metabolism, cell proliferation, antioxidative defense, and extracellular matrix degradation; in contrast, we observed downregulation of 7 miRNAs with aging, principally targeting the genes associated with the immune inflammatory response and cell-cycle arrest. Bioinformatics analysis suggested that superoxide dismutase 2 (SOD2) and thioredoxin reductase 2 (Txnrd2), located in the mitochondria, are potential targets of miR-335 and miR-34a, respectively. Aging mesangial cells exhibited significant upregulation of miR-335 and miR-34a and marked downregulation of SOD2 and Txnrd2. miR-335 and miR-34a inhibited expression of SOD2 and Txnrd2 by binding to the 3'-untranslated regions of each gene, respectively. Overexpression of miR-335 and miR-34a induced premature senescence of young mesangial cells via suppression of SOD2 and Txnrd2 with a concomitant increase in reactive oxygen species (ROS). Conversely, antisense miR-335 and miR-34a inhibited senescence of old mesangial cells via upregulation of SOD2 and Txnrd2 with a concomitant decrease in ROS. In conclusion, these results suggest that miRNAs may contribute to renal aging by inhibiting intracellular pathways such as those involving the mitochondrial antioxidative enzymes SOD2 and Txnrd2.	Aging/ metabolism/pathology;Animals;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Kidney/ metabolism/pathology;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Mitochondria/enzymology;Oxidative Stress;Phenotype;Rats;Rats, Wistar;Superoxide Dismutase/genetics/ metabolism;Thioredoxin Reductase 2/genetics/ metabolism
Silencing microRNA-143 protects the integrity of the blood-brain barrier: implications for methamphetamine abuse	Y. Bai, et al.	2016	27767041	MicroRNA-143 (miR-143) plays a critical role in various cellular processes; however, the role of miR-143 in the maintenance of blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity remains poorly defined. Silencing miR-143 in a genetic animal model or via an anti-miR-143 lentivirus prevented the BBB damage induced by methamphetamine. miR-143, which targets p53 unregulated modulator of apoptosis (PUMA), increased the permeability of human brain endothelial cells and concomitantly decreased the expression of tight junction proteins (TJPs). Silencing miR-143 increased the expression of TJPs and protected the BBB integrity against the effects of methamphetamine treatment. PUMA overexpression increased the TJP expression through a mechanism that involved the NF-kappaB and p53 transcription factor pathways. Mechanistically, methamphetamine mediated up-regulation of miR-143 via sigma-1 receptor with sequential activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and phosphatidylinositol-3' kinase (PI3K)/Akt and STAT3 pathways. These results indicated that silencing miR-143 could provide a novel therapeutic strategy for BBB damage-related vascular dysfunction.	
Blood brain barrier and neuroinflammation are critical targets of IGF-1-mediated neuroprotection in stroke for middle-aged female rats	S. Bake, et al.	2014	24618563	Ischemia-induced cerebral infarction is more severe in older animals as compared to younger animals, and is associated with reduced availability of insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1. This study determined the effect of post-stroke IGF-1 treatment, and used microRNA profiling to identify mechanisms underlying IGF-1's neuroprotective actions. Post-stroke ICV administration of IGF-1 to middle-aged female rats reduced infarct volume by 39% when measured 24h later. MicroRNA analyses of ischemic tissue collected at the early post-stroke phase (4h) indicated that 8 out of 168 disease-related miRNA were significantly downregulated by IGF-1. KEGG pathway analysis implicated these miRNA in PI3K-Akt signaling, cell adhesion/ECM receptor pathways and T-and B-cell signaling. Specific components of these pathways were subsequently analyzed in vehicle and IGF-1 treated middle-aged females. Phospho-Akt was reduced by ischemia at 4h, but elevated by IGF-1 treatment at 24h. IGF-1 induced Akt activation was preceded by a reduction of blood brain barrier permeability at 4h post-stroke and global suppression of cytokines including IL-6, IL-10 and TNF-alpha. A subset of these cytokines including IL-6 was also suppressed by IGF-1 at 24h post-stroke. These data are the first to show that the temporal and mechanistic components of post-stroke IGF-1 treatment in older animals, and that cellular components of the blood brain barrier may serve as critical targets of IGF-1 in the aging brain.	Age Factors;Animals;Blood-Brain Barrier/ metabolism;Cytokines/genetics/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;Inflammation/drug therapy/ metabolism;Insulin-Like Growth Factor I/ pharmacology;MicroRNAs/genetics;Neuroprotective Agents/administration & dosage/ pharmacology;Oxidative Stress/drug effects;Permeability/drug effects;Phosphorylation;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/metabolism;Rats;Sex Factors;Signal Transduction/drug effects;Stroke/drug therapy/ metabolism/ pathology;Time Factors
Oxidative stress dependent microRNA-34a activation via PI3Kalpha reduces the expression of sirtuin-1 and sirtuin-6 in epithelial cells	J. R. Baker, et al.	2016	27767101	Sirtuin-1 (SIRT1) and SIRT6, NAD+-dependent Class III protein deacetylases, are putative anti-aging enzymes, down-regulated in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), which is characterized by the accelerated ageing of the lung and associated with increased oxidative stress. Here, we show that oxidative stress (hydrogen peroxide) selectively elevates microRNA-34a (miR-34a) but not the related miR-34b/c, with concomitant reduction of SIRT1/-6 in bronchial epithelial cells (BEAS2B), which was also observed in peripheral lung samples from patients with COPD. Over-expression of a miR-34a mimic caused a significant reduction in both mRNA and protein of SIRT1/-6, whereas inhibition of miR-34a (antagomir) increased these sirtuins. Induction of miR-34a expression with H2O2 was phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI3K) dependent as it was associated with PI3Kalpha activation as well as phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) reduction. Importantly, miR-34a antagomirs increased SIRT1/-6 mRNA levels, whilst decreasing markers of cellular senescence in airway epithelial cells from COPD patients, suggesting that this process is reversible. Other sirtuin isoforms were not affected by miR-34a. Our data indicate that miR-34a is induced by oxidative stress via PI3K signaling, and orchestrates ageing responses under oxidative stress, therefore highlighting miR-34a as a new therapeutic target and biomarker in COPD and other oxidative stress-driven aging diseases.	
Oxidative stress and expression of insulin signaling proteins in the brain of diabetic rats: Role of Nigella sativa oil and antidiabetic drugs	M. Balbaa, et al.	2017	28505155	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Insulin resistance of the brain is a specific form of type2-diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and the active insulin-signaling pathway plays a neuroprotective role against damaging conditions and Alzheimer's progression. The present study identifies the mediated emerging effects of the Nigella sativa oil (NSO) on the memory enhancing process, its anti-oxidative, acetylcholinestrase (AChE) inhibition, anti-brain insulin resistance and anti-amyloidogenic activities. In addition, the possible role of some anti-diabetic drugs in the neuro-protection processes and their effect in combination with NSO and/or the insulin receptor inhibitor IOMe-AG538 were investigated. METHODS: T2DM-induced rats were orally and daily administrated 2.0 ml NSO, 100 mg metformin (MT), 0.8 mg glimepiride (GI) and different combinations (100 mg MT & 2.0 ml NSO, 0.8 mg GI & 2.0 ml NSO and 2.0 ml NSO & intraperitoneal injection of 1/100 LD50 of IOMe-AG538) per kg body weight for 21 days. RESULTS: A significant increase in the brain lipid peroxidation and decrease in the antioxidant status with peripheral and central production of pro-inflammatory mediators were observed in diabetes-induced rats. The brain AChE was activated and associated with diminished brain glucose level and cholinergic function. In addition, the brain insulin resistance and the attenuated insulin signaling pathway (p-IRS/ p-AKT/p-GSK-3beta) were accompanied by an augmentation in GSK-3beta level, which in turn may contribute in the extensive alterations of Tau phosphorylation along with changes in PP2A level. Furthermore, neuronal loss and elevation in Abeta-42 plaque formation were observed due to a low IDE formation and an increased expression of p53, BACE1 and APP with diminished ADAM10, SIRT1 and BDNF levels. The expression profile of AD-related miRNAs in sera and brain tissues displayed its neuro-protection role. The treatment of diabetes-induced rats with NSO and the anti-diabetic drugs alone and/or in combination have the potential to suppress the oxidative stress, the pro-inflammatory mediators and amyloidogenic pathway. Moreover, it lowers the insulin receptor inhibitory effect of IOMe-AG538 and modifies the insulin-signaling pathway. Therefore, it prevents the neurotoxicity, amyloid plaque formation and Tau hyper-phosphorylation and restores AD-related miRNA normal levels. CONCLUSION: These data suggest that NSO or its combined treatments with anti-diabetic drugs have a possible benefit as disease modifying agents for the insulin resistance in the brain through enhancing brain insulin signaling pathway.	
A pathogenic mechanism in Huntington's disease involves small CAG-repeated RNAs with neurotoxic activity	M. Banez-Coronel, et al.	2012	22383888	Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominantly inherited disorder caused by the expansion of CAG repeats in the Huntingtin (HTT) gene. The abnormally extended polyglutamine in the HTT protein encoded by the CAG repeats has toxic effects. Here, we provide evidence to support that the mutant HTT CAG repeats interfere with cell viability at the RNA level. In human neuronal cells, expanded HTT exon-1 mRNA with CAG repeat lengths above the threshold for complete penetrance (40 or greater) induced cell death and increased levels of small CAG-repeated RNAs (sCAGs), of approximately 21 nucleotides in a Dicer-dependent manner. The severity of the toxic effect of HTT mRNA and sCAG generation correlated with CAG expansion length. Small RNAs obtained from cells expressing mutant HTT and from HD human brains significantly decreased neuronal viability, in an Ago2-dependent mechanism. In both cases, the use of anti-miRs specific for sCAGs efficiently blocked the toxic effect, supporting a key role of sCAGs in HTT-mediated toxicity. Luciferase-reporter assays showed that expanded HTT silences the expression of CTG-containing genes that are down-regulated in HD. These results suggest a possible link between HD and sCAG expression with an aberrant activation of the siRNA/miRNA gene silencing machinery, which may trigger a detrimental response. The identification of the specific cellular processes affected by sCAGs may provide insights into the pathogenic mechanisms underlying HD, offering opportunities to develop new therapeutic approaches.	Exons;Gene Silencing;Humans;Huntingtin Protein;Huntington Disease/ etiology/genetics/pathology;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Neurons/metabolism/pathology;Peptides/genetics/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Trinucleotide Repeat Expansion
New pROSpects for PTP1B: micro-managing oncogene-induced senescence	R. S. Banh, et al.	2014	25192363	Oncogene-induced senescence (OIS) provides an important, but incompletely understood, barrier to tumorigenesis. In this issue, Yang et al. (2014) surprisingly report that inactivation of PTP1B by reactive oxygen species is essential for OIS, via effects on AGO2 and microRNA maturation.	Argonaute Proteins/ metabolism;Gene Silencing;Humans;Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase, Non-Receptor Type 1/ physiology;Tyrosine/ metabolism;ras Proteins/ physiology
MicroRNA-125b induces tau hyperphosphorylation and cognitive deficits in Alzheimer's disease	J. Banzhaf-Strathmann, et al.	2014	25001178	Sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent form of dementia, but no clear disease-initiating mechanism is known. Abeta deposits and neuronal tangles composed of hyperphosphorylated tau are characteristic for AD. Here, we analyze the contribution of microRNA-125b (miR-125b), which is elevated in AD. In primary neurons, overexpression of miR-125b causes tau hyperphosphorylation and an upregulation of p35, cdk5, and p44/42-MAPK signaling. In parallel, the phosphatases DUSP6 and PPP1CA and the anti-apoptotic factor Bcl-W are downregulated as direct targets of miR-125b. Knockdown of these phosphatases induces tau hyperphosphorylation, and overexpression of PPP1CA and Bcl-W prevents miR-125b-induced tau phosphorylation, suggesting that they mediate the effects of miR-125b on tau. Conversely, suppression of miR-125b in neurons by tough decoys reduces tau phosphorylation and kinase expression/activity. Injecting miR-125b into the hippocampus of mice impairs associative learning and is accompanied by downregulation of Bcl-W, DUSP6, and PPP1CA, resulting in increased tau phosphorylation in vivo. Importantly, DUSP6 and PPP1CA are also reduced in AD brains. These data implicate miR-125b in the pathogenesis of AD by promoting pathological tau phosphorylation.	Alzheimer Disease/genetics/ metabolism;Animals;Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Cells, Cultured;Cognition Disorders/genetics;Down-Regulation;Dual Specificity Phosphatase 6/genetics/metabolism;Gene Knockout Techniques;Hippocampus/drug effects/metabolism;Humans;Memory/physiology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism/pharmacology;Neurons/metabolism;Phosphorylation;Protein Phosphatase 1/genetics/metabolism;tau Proteins/ metabolism;Alzheimer's disease;kinases;microRNA-125b;phosphatases;tau phosphorylation
Opposing actions of environmental enrichment and Alzheimer's disease on the expression of hippocampal microRNAs in mouse models	B. Barak, et al.	2013	24022509	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia in the elderly. Although there are no drugs that modify the disease process, exposure to an enriched environment (EE) can slow the disease progression. Here, we characterize the effects of AD and EE on the post-transcriptional regulators, microRNAs (miRNAs), which may contribute to the detrimental and beneficial effects of AD and EE, respectively, on synaptic plasticity-related proteins and AD pathology. We found for the first time miRNAs that were inversely regulated in AD and EE, and may affect synaptic proteins and modulators, molecular factors associated with AD pathology, and survival and neuroprotective factors. MiRNAs that were upregulated only in 3xTgAD mice model of AD compared with their control mice were localized to synapses, predicted to downregulate essential synaptic proteins and are highly associated with regulating apoptosis, AD-associated processes and axon guidance. Studying the progressive change in miRNAs modulation during aging of 3xTgAD mice, we identified miRNAs that were regulated in earlier stages of AD, suggesting them as potential AD biomarkers. Last, we characterized AD- and EE-related effects in the mouse hippocampus on tomosyn protein levels, an inhibitor of the synaptic transmission machinery. While EE reduced tomosyn levels, tomosyn levels were increased in old 3xTgAD mice, suggesting a role for tomosyn in the impairment of synaptic transmission in AD. Interestingly, we found that miR-325 regulates the expression levels of tomosyn as demonstrated by a luciferase reporter assay, and that miR-325 was downregulated in AD and upregulated following EE. These findings improve our understanding of the molecular and cellular processes in AD pathology, following EE, and the interplay between the two processes, and open new avenues for the studies of understanding and controlling AD.	Aging/ genetics/metabolism;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics;Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Disease Models, Animal;Environment;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation/ physiology;Hippocampus/ metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/metabolism;Neuronal Plasticity/ genetics;R-SNARE Proteins/metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Synapses/genetics/metabolism;Synaptic Transmission/genetics
Threshold-independent meta-analysis of Alzheimer's disease transcriptomes shows progressive changes in hippocampal functions, epigenetics and microRNA regulation	S. Barbash and H. Soreq	2012	22191566	End-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves drastic modifications in neuronal molecular and cellular processes, but little is known about the dynamics of these modifications during disease initiation and progression. Here, we report meta-analysis of 100 publicly available Microarray datasets using threshold-independent analysis. We found that different patients react to AD progression by variable single transcript alterations which however lead to similar changes in functional gene groups. Stratification by patients' cognitive deterioration pre`sented hippocampal-specific mRNA alterations which involved progressively changed gene categories and indicate changes in epigenetic state and microRNA profiles. In addition, datasets from laser-captured neurofibrillary tangles-free hippocampal neurons and transcript classification by cell types identified many of these changes in neurons. Intriguingly, we discovered that early-onset decline in alternative splicing, protein folding and transport transcripts occur concurrently with decreases in synaptic transmission, whereas at later stages these changes progressed into enhanced oxidative stress and inflammation. Our findings open new venues for identifying novel targets for intervention with AD progression.	Alzheimer Disease/genetics/ pathology;Disease Progression;Epigenesis, Genetic/ physiology;Epigenomics;Hippocampus/ metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Transcriptome/ physiology
A lentiviral sponge for miR-101 regulates RanBP9 expression and amyloid precursor protein metabolism in hippocampal neurons	C. Barbato, et al.	2014	24592211	Neurodegeneration associated with amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide accumulation, synaptic loss, and memory impairment are pathophysiological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Numerous microRNAs regulate amyloid precursor protein (APP) expression and metabolism. We previously reported that miR-101 is a negative regulator of APP expression in cultured hippocampal neurons. In this study, a search for predicted APP metabolism-associated miR-101 targets led to the identification of a conserved miR-101 binding site within the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of the mRNA encoding Ran-binding protein 9 (RanBP9). RanBP9 increases APP processing by beta-amyloid converting enzyme 1 (BACE1), secretion of soluble APPbeta (sAPPbeta), and generation of Abeta. MiR-101 significantly reduced reporter gene expression when co-transfected with a RanBP9 3'-UTR reporter construct, while site-directed mutagenesis of the predicted miR-101 target site eliminated the reporter response. To investigate the effect of stable inhibition of miR-101 both in vitro and in vivo, a microRNA sponge was developed to bind miR-101 and derepress its targets. Four tandem bulged miR-101 responsive elements (REs), located downstream of the enhanced green fluorescence protein (EGFP) open reading frame and driven by the synapsin promoter, were placed in a lentiviral vector to create the pLSyn-miR-101 sponge. Delivery of the sponge to primary hippocampal neurons significantly increased both APP and RanBP9 expression, as well as sAPPbeta levels in the conditioned medium. Importantly, silencing of endogenous RanBP9 reduced sAPPbeta levels in miR-101 sponge-containing hippocampal cultures, indicating that miR-101 inhibition may increase amyloidogenic processing of APP by RanBP9. Lastly, the impact of miR-101 on its targets was demonstrated in vivo by intrahippocampal injection of the pLSyn-miR-101 sponge into C57BL6 mice. This study thus provides the basis for studying the consequences of long-term miR-101 inhibition on the pathology of AD.	Alzheimer's disease;Ran-binding protein 9;amyloid precursor protein;miR-101;microRNA
Senescence in COPD and Its Comorbidities	P. J. Barnes	2017	27959617	Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is regarded as a disease of accelerated lung aging. This affliction shows all of the hallmarks of aging, including telomere shortening, cellular senescence, activation of PI3 kinase-mTOR signaling, impaired autophagy, mitochondrial dysfunction, stem cell exhaustion, epigenetic changes, abnormal microRNA profiles, immunosenescence, and a low-grade chronic inflammation (inflammaging). Many of these pathways are driven by chronic exogenous and endogenous oxidative stress. There is also a reduction in antiaging molecules, such as sirtuins and Klotho, which further accelerate the aging process. COPD is associated with several comorbidities (multimorbidity), such as cardiovascular and metabolic diseases, that share the same pathways of accelerated aging. Understanding these mechanisms has helped identify several novel therapeutic targets, and several drugs and dietary interventions are now in development to treat multimorbidity.	autophagy;cellular senescence;immunosenescence;mitochondria;oxidative stress;sirtuins
70P Identification of a novel microRNA signature: Potential diagnostic biomarkers and predictors of cisplatin response?	M. P. Barr, et al.	2016	27198426		
MicroRNAs and Drinking: Association between the Pre-miR-27a rs895819 Polymorphism and Alcohol Consumption in a Mediterranean Population	R. Barragan, et al.	2016	27537871	Recently, microRNAs (miRNA) have been proposed as regulators in the different processes involved in alcohol intake, and differences have been found in the miRNA expression profile in alcoholics. However, no study has focused on analyzing polymorphisms in genes encoding miRNAs and daily alcohol consumption at the population level. Our aim was to investigate the association between a functional polymorphism in the pre-miR-27a (rs895819 A>G) gene and alcohol consumption in an elderly population. We undertook a cross-sectional study of PREvencion con DIeta MEDiterranea (PREDIMED)-Valencia participants (n = 1007, including men and women aged 67 +/- 7 years) and measured their alcohol consumption (total and alcoholic beverages) through a validated questionnaire. We found a strong association between the pre-miR-27a polymorphism and total alcohol intake, this being higher in GG subjects (5.2 +/- 0.4 in AA, 5.9 +/- 0.5 in AG and 9.1 +/- 1.8 g/day in GG; padjusted = 0.019). We also found a statistically-significant association of the pre-miR-27a polymorphism with the risk of having a high alcohol intake (>2 drinks/day in men and >1 in women): 5.9% in AA versus 17.5% in GG; padjusted < 0.001. In the sensitivity analysis, this association was homogeneous for sex, obesity and Mediterranean diet adherence. In conclusion, we report for the first time a significant association between a miRNA polymorphism (rs895819) and daily alcohol consumption.	Aged;Alcohol Drinking/ genetics;Cross-Sectional Studies;Female;Genotype;Humans;Male;Mediterranean Region;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide/ genetics;Mediterranean;alcohol;miR27a;microRNAs
Genome-Wide MicroRNA and Gene Analysis of Mesenchymal Stem Cell Chondrogenesis Identifies an Essential Role and Multiple Targets for miR-140-5p	M. J. Barter, et al.	2015	26175215	microRNAs (miRNAs) are abundantly expressed in development where they are critical determinants of cell differentiation and phenotype. Accordingly miRNAs are essential for normal skeletal development and chondrogenesis in particular. However, the question of which miRNAs are specific to the chondrocyte phenotype has not been fully addressed. Using microarray analysis of miRNA expression during mesenchymal stem cell chondrogenic differentiation and detailed examination of the role of essential differentiation factors, such as SOX9, TGF-beta, and the cell condensation phase, we characterize the repertoire of specific miRNAs involved in chondrocyte development, highlighting in particular miR-140 and miR-455. Further with the use of mRNA microarray data we integrate miRNA expression and mRNA expression during chondrogenesis to underline the particular importance of miR-140, especially the -5p strand. We provide a detailed identification and validation of direct targets of miR-140-5p in both chondrogenesis and adult chondrocytes with the use of microarray and 3'UTR analysis. This emphasizes the diverse array of targets and pathways regulated by miR-140-5p. We are also able to confirm previous experimentally identified targets but, additionally, identify a novel positive regulation of the Wnt signaling pathway by miR-140-5p. Wnt signaling has a complex role in chondrogenesis and skeletal development and these findings illustrate a previously unidentified role for miR-140-5p in regulation of Wnt signaling in these processes. Together these developments further highlight the role of miRNAs during chondrogenesis to improve our understanding of chondrocyte development and guide cartilage tissue engineering.	Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Cells, Cultured;Chondrogenesis/ physiology;Gene Expression Profiling/ methods;Gene Targeting/ methods;Genome-Wide Association Study/ methods;Humans;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ physiology;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Middle Aged;Young Adult;Chondrogenesis;Differentiation;Epigenetics;Gene expression;Mesenchymal stem cells;miRNA
Mice lacking microRNAs in Pax8-expressing cells develop hypothyroidism and end-stage renal failure	M. P. Bartram, et al.	2016	27090781	BACKGROUND: Non-coding RNAs have gained increasing attention during the last decade. The first large group of non-coding RNAs to be characterized systematically starting at the beginning of the 21st century were small oligonucleotides--the so-called microRNAs (miRNAs). By now we have learnt that microRNAs are indispensable for most biological processes including organogenesis and maintenance of organ structure and function. The role of microRNAs has been studied extensively in the development of a number of organs, so far most studies focussed on e.g. the heart or the brain whilst the role of microRNAs in the development and maintenance of complex epithelial organs is less well understood. Furthermore most analyses regarding microRNA function in epithelial organs employed conditional knockout mouse models of the RNAse III Dicer to abrogate microRNA biogenesis. However, there is increasing evidence for Dicer to have multiple functions independent from microRNA maturation. Therefore Dicer independent models are needed to gain further insight into the complex biology of miRNA dependent processes. RESULTS: Here we analyze the contribution of microRNA-dependent transcriptional control in Pax8-expressing epithelial cells. Pax8 is a transcription factor that is crucial to the development of epithelial organs. The miRNA machinery was disrupted by crossing conditional DiGeorge syndrome critical region 8 (Dgcr8) fl/fl mice to Pax8Cre mice. The Dgcr8/Drosha complex processes pri-miRNAs in the nucleus before they are exported as pre-miRNAs for further maturation by Dicer in the cytoplasm. Dgcr8 fl/fl; Pax8Cre+ knockout mice died prematurely, developed massive hypothyroidism and end stage renal disease due to a loss of miRNAs in Pax8 expressing tissue. CONCLUSION: Pax8Cre-mediated conditional loss of DiGeorge syndrome critical region 8 (Dgcr8), an essential component of the nuclear machinery that is required for microRNA biogenesis, resulted in severe hypothyroidism, massively reduced body weight and ultimately led to renal failure and death of the animals. These data provide further insight into the importance of miRNAs in organ homeostasis using a Dicer independent model.	Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Cell Proliferation/genetics;Disease Models, Animal;Female;Gene Expression;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Hypothyroidism/ genetics/pathology;Kidney/metabolism/pathology;Kidney Failure, Chronic/ genetics/pathology;Male;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ genetics;PAX8 Transcription Factor;Paired Box Transcription Factors/ genetics;Phenotype;Cakut;Cystic kidney disease;Dgcr8;Dicer;Hydronephrosis;Kidney;MiRNA;Pax8;Thyroid gland
Loss of Dgcr8-mediated microRNA expression in the kidney results in hydronephrosis and renal malformation	M. P. Bartram, et al.	2015	25881298	BACKGROUND: Small non-coding RNA molecules (miRNAs) play a pivotal role in regulating gene expression in development. miRNAs regulate key processes at the cellular level and thereby influence organismal and tissue development including kidney morphogenesis. A miRNA molecule is initially synthesized as a longer hairneedle-shaped RNA transcript and then processed through an enzymatic complex that contains the RNA-processing enzyme Drosha and its essential interactor Dgcr8. Resulting pre-miRNAs are then cleaved by Dicer. Recent data showed that loss of Dicer resulted in severe developmental kidney phenotypes. However, as Dicer has multiple miRNA-independent functions, it was not entirely clear whether the observed renal phenotypes could be exclusively attributed to a lack of miRNA expression. METHODS: We analyzed the role of miRNAs in kidney development by conditional gene deletion of Dgcr8 in the developing kidney using a transgenic mouse line that expresses Cre recombinase in the distal nephron and derivatives of the ureteric bud in kidney development. RESULTS: Animals with a gene deletion of Dgcr8 in these tissues developed severe hydronephrosis, kidney cysts, progressive renal failure and premature death within the first two months after birth, a phenotype strongly resembling Dicer deletion. CONCLUSIONS: Here we show that conditional gene deletion of the essential miRNA-processing enzyme Dgcr8 in the developing renal tubular system results in severe developmental defects and kidney failure. These data confirm earlier findings obtained in Dicer knock-out animals and clearly illustrate the essential role of miRNAs in kidney development. The data suggests that miRNA dysregulation may play an important, yet ill-defined role in the pathogenesis of inborn defects of the genitourinary system and indicate that miRNA defects may be causative in the development of human disease.	Animals;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/ genetics;Gene Knockout Techniques;Hydronephrosis/ genetics;Integrases;Kidney/ abnormalities/metabolism;Kidney Diseases, Cystic/ genetics;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Nephrons/metabolism;Phenotype;RNA-Binding Proteins/ genetics;Renal Insufficiency/ genetics;Ribonuclease III/genetics;Urogenital Abnormalities/ genetics
A study of molecular signals deregulating mismatch repair genes in prostate cancer compared to benign prostatic hyperplasia	S. Basu, et al.	2015	25938433	Prostate cancer is one of the leading causes of mortality among aging males. There is an unmet requirement of clinically useful biomarkers for early detection of prostate cancer to reduce the liabilities of overtreatment and accompanying morbidity. The present population-based study investigates the factors disrupting expression of multiple functionally related genes of DNA mismatch repair pathway in prostate cancer patients to identify molecular attributes distinguishing adenocarcinoma from benign hyperplasia of prostate. Gene expression was compared between tissue samples from prostate cancer and benign prostatic hyperplasia using real-time-PCR, western blot and immunohistochemistry. Assessment of genotypes of seven single-nucleotide-polymorphisms of three MMR genes was conducted using PCR-coupled RFLP and sequencing. Promoter methylation was interrogated by methylation-specific-PCR and bisulfite-sequencing. Interaction between microRNAs and MMR genes was verified by 3'UTR-based dual luciferase assays. Concurrent reduction of three MMR genes namely hMLH1, hMSH6 and hMSH2 (34-85%, P<0.05) was observed in prostate cancer tissues. hMSH6 polymorphism rs1800932(Pro92Pro) conferred a borderline protection in cancer patients (OR = 0.33, 95% CI = 0.15-0.75). Relative transcript level of hMLH1 was inversely related (r = -0.59, P<0.05) with methylation quotient of its promoter which showed a significantly higher methylation density (P = 0.008, Z = -2.649) in cancer patients. hsa-miR-155, hsa-miR-141 and hsa-miR-21 gene expressions were significantly elevated (66-85%, P<0.05) in tumor specimens and negatively correlated (r = -0.602 to -0.527, P<0.05) with that of MMR genes. hsa-miR-155 & hsa-miR-141 and hsa-miR-155 & hsa-miR-21 were demonstrated to bind to their putative seed sequences in hMLH1 and hMSH6 3'UTRs respectively. Relatively higher expression of DNA methyl-transferases (DNMT1 and DNMT3b) and HIF-1alpha genes (34-50%, P<0.05) were also detected in tumor tissues. This study provides statistical evidence that MMR deficiency is correlated with hypermethylation of hMLH1 promoter and upregulation of hsa-miR-155, hsa-miR-141 and hsa-miR-21 in prostate cancer. This comparative study reflects that microRNA expression level, particularly hsa-miR-155, exhibits predictive signature of prostate adenocarcinoma.	3' Untranslated Regions;Aged;Alleles;Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Biomarkers, Tumor;CpG Islands;DNA Methylation;DNA Mismatch Repair/ genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Frequency;Genotype;Humans;Hypoxia-Inducible Factor 1, alpha Subunit/genetics/metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/chemistry/genetics;Middle Aged;Neoplasm Grading;Neoplasm Metastasis;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Promoter Regions, Genetic;Prostatic Hyperplasia/diagnosis/ genetics/ metabolism;Prostatic Neoplasms/diagnosis/ genetics/ metabolism;RNA Interference;Sequence Analysis, DNA;Signal Transduction
Functional genomics approach for identification of molecular processes underlying neurodegenerative disorders in prion diseases	U. Basu, et al.	2012	23372423	Prion diseases or transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs) are infectious neurodegenerative disorders leading to death. These include Cresutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), familial, sporadic and variant CJD and kuru in humans; and animal TSEs include scrapie in sheep, bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) in cattle, chronic wasting disease (CWD) of mule deer and elk, and transmissible mink encephalopathy. All these TSEs share common pathological features such as accumulation of mis-folded prion proteins in the central nervous system leading to cellular dysfunction and cell death. It is important to characterize the molecular pathways and events leading to prion induced neurodegeneration. Here we discuss the impact of the functional genomics approaches including microarrays, subtractive hybridization and microRNA profiling in elucidating transcriptional cascades at different stages of disease. Many of these transcriptional changes have been observed in multiple neurodegenerative diseases which may aid in identification of biomarkers for disease. A comprehensive characterization of expression profiles implicated in neurodegenerative disorders will undoubtedly advance our understanding on neuropathology and dysfunction during prion disease and other neurodegenerative disorders. We also present an outlook on the future work which may focus on analysis of structural genetic variation, genome and transcriptome sequencing using next generation sequencing with an integrated approach on animal and human TSE related studies.	Prnp;Prion;TSEs;functional candiate genes;gene expression;microarray.
MicroRNA regulation in Ames dwarf mouse liver may contribute to delayed aging	D. J. Bates, et al.	2010	19878148	The Ames dwarf mouse is well known for its remarkable propensity to delay the onset of aging. Although significant advances have been made demonstrating that this aging phenotype results primarily from an endocrine imbalance, the post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression and its impact on longevity remains to be explored. Towards this end, we present the first comprehensive study by microRNA (miRNA) microarray screening to identify dwarf-specific lead miRNAs, and investigate their roles as pivotal molecular regulators directing the long-lived phenotype. Mapping the signature miRNAs to the inversely expressed putative target genes, followed by in situ immunohistochemical staining and in vitro correlation assays, reveals that dwarf mice post-transcriptionally regulate key proteins of intermediate metabolism, most importantly the biosynthetic pathway involving ornithine decarboxylase and spermidine synthase. Functional assays using 3'-untranslated region reporter constructs in co-transfection experiments confirm that miRNA-27a indeed suppresses the expression of both of these proteins, marking them as probable targets of this miRNA in vivo. Moreover, the putative repressed action of this miRNA on ornithine decarboxylase is identified in dwarf mouse liver as early as 2 months of age. Taken together, our results show that among the altered aspects of intermediate metabolism detected in the dwarf mouse liver--glutathione metabolism, the urea cycle and polyamine biosynthesis--miRNA-27a is a key post-transcriptional control. Furthermore, compared to its normal siblings, the dwarf mouse exhibits a head start in regulating these pathways to control their normality, which may ultimately contribute to its extended health-span and longevity.	3' Untranslated Regions;Aging;Animals;Cell Line;Computational Biology;Dwarfism/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Liver/ chemistry/metabolism;Male;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Ornithine Decarboxylase/genetics;Protein Processing, Post-Translational
MicroRNAs Are Stored in Human MII Oocyte and Their Expression Profile Changes in Reproductive Aging	R. Battaglia, et al.	2016	28007692	Maternal RNAs are synthesized by the oocyte during its growth; some of them are utilized for oocyte-specific processes and metabolism, others are stored and used during early development before embryonic genome activation. The appropriate expression of complex sets of genes is needed for oocyte maturation and early embryo development. In spite of the basic role of noncoding RNAs in the regulation of gene expression, few studies have analyzed their role in human oocytes. In this study, we identified the microRNAs (miRNAs) expressed in human metaphase II stage oocytes, and found that some of them are able to control pluripotency, chromatin remodeling, and early embryo development. We demonstrated that 12 miRNAs are differentially expressed in women of advanced reproductive age and, by bioinformatics analysis, we identified their mRNA targets, expressed in human oocytes and involved in the regulation of pathways altered in reproductive aging. Finally, we found the upregulation of miR-29a-3p, miR-203a-3p, and miR-494-3p, evolutionarily conserved miRNAs, also in aged mouse oocytes, and demonstrated that their overexpression is antithetically correlated with the downregulation of DNA methyltransferase 3A (Dnmt3a), DNA methyltransferase 3B (Dnmt3b), phosphatase and tensin homolog (Pten), and mitochondrial transcription factor A (Tfam). We propose that oocyte miRNAs perform an important regulatory function in human female germ cells, and their altered regulation could explain the changes occurring in oocyte aging.	human oocyte;microRNAs;reproductive aging;stemness
DAF-16/FOXO regulates transcription of cki-1/Cip/Kip and repression of lin-4 during C. elegans L1 arrest	L. R. Baugh and P. W. Sternberg	2006	16631585	Development is typically studied as a continuous process under laboratory conditions, but wild animals often develop in variable and stressful environments. C. elegans larvae hatch in a developmentally arrested state (L1 arrest) and initiate post-embryonic development only in the presence of food (E. coli in lab). In contrast to the well-studied dauer arrest, L1 arrest occurs without morphological modification, although larvae in L1 arrest are more resistant to environmental stress than developing larvae . Consistent with its role in dauer formation and aging, we show that insulin/insulin-like growth factor (IGF) signaling regulates L1 arrest. daf-2 insulin/IGF receptor mutants have a constitutive-L1-arrest phenotype when fed and extended survival of L1 arrest when starved. Conversely, daf-16/FOXO mutants have a defective-arrest phenotype, failing to arrest development and dying rapidly when starved. We show that DAF-16 is required for transcription of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor cki-1 in stem cells in response to starvation, accounting for the failure of daf-16/FOXO mutants to arrest cell division during L1 arrest. Other developmental events such as cell migration, cell fusion, and expression of the microRNA lin-4, a temporal regulator of post-embryonic development, are also observed in starved daf-16/FOXO mutants. These results suggest that DAF-16/FOXO promotes developmental arrest via transcriptional regulation of numerous target genes that control various aspects of development.	Animals;Caenorhabditis elegans/ growth & development;Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins/ metabolism/ physiology;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor Proteins/ metabolism;Forkhead Transcription Factors;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;MicroRNAs;Nutritional Requirements;Repressor Proteins/ metabolism;Somatomedins/physiology;Transcription Factors/ physiology
Age-dependent regulation of tumor-related microRNAs in the brain of the annual fish Nothobranchius furzeri	M. Baumgart, et al.	2012	22487494	MicroRNAs are regulators of gene expression. We used miRNA-seq by the Illumina platform to quantify and compare the temporal miRNA expression profiles in the brain of a short-lived (GRZ) and a longer-lived strain (MZM) of the annual fish Nothobranchius furzeri. We used fuzzy-c-means clustering to group miRNAs with similar profiles. In MZM, we found tumor suppressors with known negative interactions with MYC and/or positive interactions with TP53 among up-regulated miRNAs (e.g. miR-23a, miR-26a/b, miR-29a/b and miR-101a) in aged animals. Conversely, we found oncogenes which are MYC targets among down-regulated miRNAs (miR-7a, members of miR cluster 17 approximately 92). These latter were previously shown to be regulated in human replicative aging. In addition, three regulated miRNAs (miR-181c, miR-29a and miR-338) are known to be age-regulated and to globally contribute to regulation of their targets in the human brain. Therefore, there appears to be a degree of evolutionarily conservation in age-dependent miRNA expression between humans and N. furzeri. GRZ showed specific regulation of some miRNAs, notably a marked up-regulation of miR-124, a miRNA important for neuronal differentiation. The two strains differ in their miRNA expression profiles already at sexual maturity. Short lifespan in GRZ could therefore be--at least partially--due to dysregulated miRNA expression.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Brain/ metabolism;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Killifishes/ metabolism;Longevity/genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Oncogene Protein p55(v-myc)/metabolism;Oncogenes;Up-Regulation
Vitamin D Receptor Genotype Modulates the Correlation between Vitamin D and Circulating Levels of let-7a/b and Vitamin D Intake in an Elderly Cohort	E. L. Beckett, et al.	2014	25969372	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) are linked to disease and are potential biomarkers. Vitamin D may modulate miRNA profiles, and vitamin D status has been linked to risk of disease, including cardiovascular disease and cancers. We hypothesise that genotypic variance influences these relationships. We examined the correlations between vitamin D intake and circulating levels of the miRNAs let-7a/b, and the involvement of two common vitamin D receptor (VDR) polymorphisms, BsmI and ApaI. METHODS: Two hundred participants completed food frequency and supplement questionnaires, and were assayed for circulating let-7b expression by qPCR. Polymorphisms were detected using restriction fragment length polymorphism-PCR. RESULTS: let-7b expression negatively correlated with vitamin D intake (rs=-0.20, p=0.005). The magnitude and direction of correlation were maintained in the presence of the BsmI restriction site (rs=-0.27, p=0.0005). However, in the absence of BsmI restriction site, the direction of the correlation was reversed (rs=+0.319, p=0.0497). These correlations were significantly different (z-score=2.64, p=0.0085). The correlation between vitamin D intake and let-7a was only significant in those without the ApaI restriction site. CONCLUSIONS: The correlation between vitamin D intake and let-7a/b expression in this cohort varies with VDR genotype. This study highlights the importance of considering underlying genotypic variance in miRNA expression studies and in nutritional epigenetics generally.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/blood/genetics;Cohort Studies;Female;Gene Expression;Genotype;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/ genetics;Nutrigenomics;Polymerase Chain Reaction;Polymorphism, Restriction Fragment Length;Receptors, Calcitriol/ genetics;Vitamin D/ administration & dosage/ blood
Correlated expression patterns of microRNA genes with age-dependent behavioural changes in honeybee	S. K. Behura and C. W. Whitfield	2010	20491979	The hive-living honeybees (Apis mellifera) show age-dependent behavioural changes; young bees usually nurse the broods in the colony and the older bees engage in foraging activities. These developmentally regulated behavioural changes were previously shown to be correlated with genome-wide transcriptional changes in the honeybee brain. The indigenous small regulatory RNA molecules, known as microRNAs (miRNAs), are potent regulators of gene expression and also are developmentally regulated. Thus, we wanted to study if there might be correlation of differential expression of miRNA genes in the brain with age-dependent behavioural changes of the bees. We determined expression patterns of a set (n= 20) of predicted miRNA genes, by quantitative real-time PCR assays, in the brains of young and old bees that were engaged in nursing or foraging activities in the colony, respectively. Our data show correlated up-regulation of miRNA-124, miRNA-14, miRNA-276, miRNA-13b, let-7 and miRNA-13a in the young nurse bees. miRNA-12, miRNA-9, miRNA-219, miRNA-210, miRNA-263, miRNA-92 and miRNA-283 showed correlated expression patterns in the old forager bees. The modular changes of miRNA genes in the young nurse and old forager bees suggest possible roles of miRNAs in age-dependent behavioural changes in bees. The correlated expression of intronic miRNA genes and their host genes as well as of miRNA genes physically clustered in the genome are also observed.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Bees/ genetics/growth & development/ physiology;Behavior, Animal;Cluster Analysis;Feeding Behavior;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/ genetics;Introns/genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Multigene Family/genetics;Up-Regulation/genetics
miR-382 targeting PTEN-Akt axis promotes liver regeneration	Y. Bei, et al.	2016	26636539	Liver regeneration is a highly orchestrated process which can be regulated by microRNAs (miRNAs, miRs), though the mechanisms are largely unclear. This study was aimed to identify miRNAs responsible for hepatocyte proliferation during liver regeneration. Here we detected a marked elevation of miR-382 in the mouse liver at 48 hrs after partial hepatectomy (PH-48h) using microarray analysis and qRT-PCRs. miR-382 overexpression accelerated the proliferation and the G1 to S phase transition of the cell cycle both in mouse NCTC1469 and human HL7702 normal liver cells, while miR-382 downregulation had inverse effects. Moreover, miR-382 negatively regulated PTEN expression and increased Akt phosphorylation both in vitro and in vivo. Using PTEN siRNA and Akt activator/inhibitor, we further found that PTEN inhibition and Akt phosphorylation were essential for mediating the promotive effect of miR-382 in the proliferation and cell growth of hepatocytes. Collectively, our findings identify miR-382 as a promoter for hepatocyte proliferation and cell growth via targeting PTEN-Akt axis which might be a novel therapeutic target to enhance liver regeneration capability.	Animals;Cell Cycle;Cell Line;Cell Proliferation;Enzyme Activators/pharmacology;Hepatectomy;Hepatocytes/ enzymology/pathology;Humans;Liver/ enzymology/pathology/surgery;Liver Regeneration;Male;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Models, Animal;PTEN Phosphohydrolase/genetics/ metabolism;Phosphorylation;Protein Kinase Inhibitors/pharmacology;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/agonists/antagonists & inhibitors/ metabolism;RNA Interference;Signal Transduction;Transfection;Up-Regulation;Akt;Pten;microRNA;proliferation
MicroRNA in Alzheimer's disease: an exploratory study in brain, cerebrospinal fluid and plasma	L. M. Bekris, et al.	2013	23822153	MicroRNA (miRNA) may be potential biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The objective of this investigation was to demonstrate that miRNAs in human brain or biofluids are differentially expressed according to disease status, tissue type, neuritic plaque score or Braak stage. Post-mortem brain (PMB) miRNA were profiled using arrays and validated using quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR). Five qRT-PCR-validated miRNAs were measured in an independent sample of PMB, cerebrospinal fluid and plasma from the same subjects. Plasma miR-15a was found to be associated with plaque score in the independent sample. In conclusion, miRNA present in human biofluids may offer utility as biomarkers of AD.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/blood/ cerebrospinal fluid/diagnosis;Area Under Curve;Biomarkers/blood/cerebrospinal fluid;Brain/ metabolism;Case-Control Studies;Cell Line, Tumor;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/blood/ cerebrospinal fluid/genetics;Middle Aged;RNA Interference;ROC Curve;Transcriptome
DGCR8 is essential for tumor progression following PTEN loss in the prostate	C. D. Belair, et al.	2015	26206718	In human prostate cancer, the microRNA biogenesis machinery increases with prostate cancer progression. Here, we show that deletion of the Dgcr8 gene, a critical component of this complex, inhibits tumor progression in a Pten-knockout mouse model of prostate cancer. Early stages of tumor development were unaffected, but progression to advanced prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia was severely inhibited. Dgcr8 loss blocked Pten null-induced expansion of the basal-like, but not luminal, cellular compartment. Furthermore, while late-stage Pten knockout tumors exhibit decreased senescence-associated beta-galactosidase activity and increased proliferation, the simultaneous deletion of Dgcr8 blocked these changes resulting in levels similar to wild type. Sequencing of small RNAs in isolated epithelial cells uncovered numerous miRNA changes associated with PTEN loss. Consistent with a Pten-Dgcr8 association, analysis of a large cohort of human prostate tumors shows a strong correlation between Akt activation and increased Dgcr8 mRNA levels. Together, these findings uncover a critical role for microRNAs in enhancing proliferation and enabling the expansion of the basal cell compartment associated with tumor progression following Pten loss.	Animals;Disease Progression;Gene Deletion;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/genetics;PTEN Phosphohydrolase/deficiency/genetics/ metabolism;Prostate/physiopathology;Prostatic Intraepithelial Neoplasia/genetics;Prostatic Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism;RNA-Binding Proteins/ genetics/ metabolism;Dgcr8;Pten;microRNA;microRNA biogenesis;prostate cancer
Cell cycle control (and more) by programmed -1 ribosomal frameshifting: implications for disease and therapeutics	A. T. Belew and J. D. Dinman	2015	25584829	Abstract Like most basic molecular mechanisms, programmed -1 ribosomal frameshifting (-1 PRF) was first identified in viruses. Early observations that global dysregulation of -1 PRF had deleterious effects on yeast cell growth suggested that -1 PRF may be used to control cellular gene expression, and the cell cycle in particular. Collection of sufficient numbers of viral -1 PRF signals coupled with advances in computer sciences enabled 2 complementary computational approaches to identify -1 PRF signals in free living organisms. The unexpected observation that almost all -1 PRF events on eukaryotic mRNAs direct ribosomes to premature termination codons engendered the hypothesis that -1 PRF signals post-transcriptionally regulate gene expression by functioning as mRNA destabilizing elements. Emerging research suggests that some human diseases are associated with global defects in -1 PRF. The recent discovery of -1 PRF signal-specific trans-acting regulators may provide insight into novel therapeutic strategies aimed at treating diseases caused by changes in gene expression patterns.	Cell Cycle/genetics/ physiology;Cell Cycle Checkpoints;Databases, Genetic;Frameshifting, Ribosomal;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Protein Biosynthesis;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Ribosomes/ metabolism;Spinocerebellar Ataxias/genetics/metabolism;Telomere/metabolism;Ribosome;Sca26;aging;cancer;frameshifting;miRNA;pseudoknot;ribosomopathy;telomere;translation
Senescence is an endogenous trigger for microRNA-directed transcriptional gene silencing in human cells	M. Benhamed, et al.	2012	22366686	Cellular senescence is a tumour-suppressor mechanism that is triggered by cancer-initiating or promoting events in mammalian cells. The molecular underpinnings for this stable arrest involve transcriptional repression of proliferation-promoting genes regulated by the retinoblastoma (RB1)/E2F repressor complex. Here, we demonstrate that AGO2, RB1 and microRNAs (miRNAs), as exemplified here by let-7, physically and functionally interact to repress RB1/E2F-target genes in senescence, a process that we call senescence-associated transcriptional gene silencing (SA-TGS). Herein, AGO2 acts as the effector protein for let-7-directed implementation of silent-state chromatin modifications at target promoters, and inhibition of the let-7/AGO2 effector complex perturbs the timely execution of senescence. Thus, we identify cellular senescence as the an endogenous signal of miRNA/AGO2-mediated TGS in human cells. Our results suggest that miRNA/AGO2-mediated SA-TGS may contribute to tumour suppression by stably repressing proliferation-promoting genes in premalignant cancer cells.	Argonaute Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Base Sequence;Binding Sites/genetics;Blotting, Western;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Line;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Nucleus/metabolism;Chromatin Immunoprecipitation;E2F Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Silencing;Heterochromatin/metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Mutation;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Promoter Regions, Genetic/genetics;Protein Binding;Retinoblastoma Protein/ genetics/metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction/genetics
Complement protein C1q-mediated neuroprotection is correlated with regulation of neuronal gene and microRNA expression	M. E. Benoit and A. J. Tenner	2011	21368058	Activation of the complement cascade, a powerful effector mechanism of the innate immune system, is associated with neuroinflammation but also with elimination of inappropriate synapses during development. Synthesis of C1q, a recognition component of the complement system, occurs in brain during ischemia/reperfusion and Alzheimer's disease, suggesting that C1q may be a response to injury. In vitro, C1q, in the absence of other complement proteins, improves neuronal viability and neurite outgrowth and prevents beta-amyloid-induced neuronal death, suggesting that C1q may have a direct neuroprotective role. Here, investigating the molecular basis for this neuroprotection in vitro, addition of C1q to rat primary cortical neurons significantly upregulated expression of genes associated with cholesterol metabolism, such as cholesterol-25-hydroxylase and insulin induced gene 2, and transiently decreased cholesterol levels in neurons, known to facilitate neurite outgrowth. In addition, the expression of syntaxin-3 and its functional association with synaptosomal-associated protein 25 was increased. C1q also increased the nuclear translocation of cAMP response element-binding protein and CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein-delta (C/EBP-delta), two transcription factors involved in nerve growth factor (NGF) expression and downregulated specific microRNAs, including let-7c that is predicted to target (and thus inhibit) NGF and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) mRNA. Accordingly, C1q increased expression of NGF and NT-3, and small interfering RNA inhibition of C/EBP-delta, NGF, or NT-3 expression prevented the C1q-dependent neurite outgrowth. No such neuroprotective effect is seen in the presence of C3a or C5a. Finally, the induced neuronal gene expression required conformationally intact C1q. These results show that C1q can directly promote neuronal survival, thereby demonstrating new interactions between immune proteins and neuronal cells that may facilitate neuroprotection.	Animals;Cell Survival/immunology;Cells, Cultured;Complement C1q/ physiology;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/immunology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Neurons/immunology/pathology/ physiology;Neuroprotective Agents;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley
Hot topics in epigenetic mechanisms of aging: 2011	M. Berdasco and M. Esteller	2012	22321768	Aging is a complex process that results in compromised biological functions of the organism and increased susceptibility to disease and death. Although the molecular basis of aging is currently being investigated in many experimental contexts, there is no consensus theory to fully explain the aging process. Epigenetic factors, including DNA methylation, histone modifications, and microRNA expression, may play central roles in controlling changes in gene expression and genomic instability during aging. In this Hot Topic review, we first examine the mechanisms by which these epigenetic factors contribute to aging in diverse eukaryotic species including experimental models of yeasts, worms, and mammals. In a second section, we will emphasize in the mammalian epigenetic alterations and how they may affect human longevity by altering stem cell function and/or somatic cell decline. The field of aging epigenetics is ripe with potential, but is still in its infancy, as new layers of complexity are emerging in the epigenetic network. As an example, we are only beginning to understand the relevance of non-coding genome to organism aging or the existence of an epigenetic memory with transgenerational inheritance. Addressing these topics will be fundamental for exploiting epigenetics phenomena as markers of aging-related diseases or as therapeutic targets.	Aging;Animals;Cell Aging;Cell Differentiation;Epigenesis, Genetic;Humans
Multiple myeloma cells alter the senescence phenotype of bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells under participation of the DLK1-DIO3 genomic region	R. Berenstein, et al.	2015	25886144	BACKGROUND: Alterations and senescence in bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells of multiple myeloma patients (MM-BMMSCs) have become an important research focus. However the role of senescence in the pathophysiology of MM is not clear. METHODS: Correlation between senescence, cell cycle and microRNA expression of MM-BMMSCs (n = 89) was analyzed. Gene expression analysis, copy number analysis and methylation specific PCR were performed by Real-Time PCR. Furthermore, cyclin E1, cyclin D1, p16 and p21 genes were analyzed at the protein level using ELISA. Cell cycle and senescence were analyzed by FACS. MiRNA transfection was performed with miR-485-5p inhibitor and mimic followed by downstream analysis of senescence and cell cycle characteristics of MM-BMMSCs. Results were analyzed by Mann-Whitney U test, Wilcoxon signed-rank test and paired t-test depending on the experimental set up. RESULTS: MM-BMMSCs displayed increased senescence associated beta-galactosidase activity (SA-betaGalA), cell cycle arrest in S phase and overexpression of microRNAs. The overexpressed microRNAs miR-485-5p and miR-519d are located on DLK1-DIO3 and C19MC, respectively. Analyses revealed copy number accumulation and hypomethylation of both clusters. KMS12-PE myeloma cells decreased SA-betaGalA and influenced cell cycle characteristics of MM-BMMSCs. MiR-485-5p was significantly decreased in co-cultured MM-BMMSCs in connection with an increased methylation of DLK1-DIO3. Modification of miR-485-5p levels using microRNA mimic or inhibitor altered senescence and cell cycle characteristics of MM-BMMSCs. CONCLUSIONS: Here, we show for the first time that MM-BMMSCs have aberrant methylation and copy number of the DLK1-DIO3 and C19MC genomic region. Furthermore, this is the first study pointing that multiple myeloma cells in vitro reduce both the senescence phenotype of MM-BMMSCs and the expression of miR-223 and miR-485-5p. Thus, it is questionable whether senescence of MM-BMMSCs plays a pathological role in active multiple myeloma or is more important when cell interaction with myeloma cells is inhibited. Furthermore, we found that MiR-485-5p, which is located on the DLK1-DIO3 cluster, seems to participate in the regulation of senescence status and cell cycle characteristics of MM-BMMSCs. Thus, further exploration of the microRNAs of DLK1-DIO3 could provide further insights into the origin of the senescence state and its reversal in MM-BMMSCs.	Cell Aging;Cell Cycle;Cell Line, Tumor;Cells, Cultured;Coculture Techniques;DNA Copy Number Variations;DNA Methylation;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ physiology;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Multiple Myeloma/genetics/ pathology
miRs-138 and -424 control palmitoylation-dependent CD95-mediated cell death by targeting acyl protein thioesterases 1 and 2 in CLL	V. Berg, et al.	2015	25670628	Resistance toward CD95-mediated apoptosis is a hallmark of many different malignancies, as it is known from primary chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. Previously, we could show that miR-138 and -424 are downregulated in CLL cells. Here, we identified 2 new target genes, namely acyl protein thioesterase (APT) 1 and 2, which are under control of both miRs and thereby significantly overexpressed in CLL cells. APTs are the only enzymes known to promote depalmitoylation. Indeed, membrane proteins are significantly less palmitoylated in CLL cells compared with normal B cells. We identified APTs to directly interact with CD95 to promote depalmitoylation, thus impairing apoptosis mediated through CD95. Specific inhibition of APTs by siRNAs, treatment with miRs-138/-424, and pharmacologic approaches restore CD95-mediated apoptosis in CLL cells and other cancer cells, pointing to an important regulatory role of APTs in CD95 apoptosis. The identification of the depalmitoylation reaction of CD95 by APTs as a microRNA (miRNA) target provides a novel molecular mechanism for how malignant cells escape from CD95-mediated apoptosis. Here, we introduce palmitoylation as a novel posttranslational modification in CLL, which might impact on localization, mobility, and function of molecules, survival signaling, and migration.	Antigens, CD95/genetics/ metabolism;Apoptosis;Blotting, Western;Humans;Leukemia, Lymphocytic, Chronic, B-Cell/ genetics/metabolism/ pathology;Lipoylation;Luciferases/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Thiolester Hydrolases/genetics/ metabolism;Tumor Cells, Cultured
Nuclear hormone receptor regulation of microRNAs controls developmental progression	A. Bethke, et al.	2009	19342589	In response to small-molecule signals such as retinoids or steroids, nuclear receptors activate gene expression to regulate development in different tissues. MicroRNAs turn off target gene expression within cells by binding complementary regions in messenger RNA transcripts, and they have been broadly implicated in development and disease. Here we show that the Caenorhabditis elegans nuclear receptor DAF-12 and its steroidal ligand directly activate promoters of let-7 microRNA family members to down-regulate the microRNA target hbl-1, which drives progression of epidermal stem cells from second to third larval stage patterns of cell division. Conversely, the receptor without the ligand represses microRNA expression during developmental arrest. These findings identify microRNAs as components of a hormone-coupled molecular switch that shuts off earlier developmental programs to allow for later ones.	Animals;Animals, Genetically Modified;Caenorhabditis elegans/cytology/genetics/ growth & development/ metabolism;Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Cell Line;Cholestenes/ metabolism;DNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Genes, Helminth;Humans;Ligands;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Mutation;RNA, Helminth/genetics/metabolism;Receptors, Cytoplasmic and Nuclear/genetics/ metabolism;Response Elements;Signal Transduction;Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;Transfection;Up-Regulation
APP and BACE1 miRNA genetic variability has no major role in risk for Alzheimer disease	K. Bettens, et al.	2009	19462468	Expression levels of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and beta-site amyloid (Abeta) cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) have been implicated in Alzheimer disease (AD) progression. In a well-characterized Belgian group of 358 AD patients and 462 controls, we examined whether genetic variability in microRNA (miRNA) binding sites of APP and BACE1 or in associated miRNAs influenced risk for AD. Direct sequencing identified six variants in the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of APP and 29 variants in the 3' UTR of BACE1, of which few variants were restricted to patients: in APP; 4 variants in 6 patients ( approximately 2%) and in BACE1; 7 variants in 11 patients ( approximately 3.5%). Further genetic screening of the miR-29 cluster encoding the miR-29a/b-1 genes showed 10 variants in close proximity of this cluster. Association studies using all common variants detected in the 3' UTR of BACE1 and the miR-29 gene cluster did not identify an association with AD risk. However, we did observe statistical interaction between rs535860 (BACE1 3' UTR) and rs34772568 (near miR29a; odds ratio [OR](interaction), 0.4; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.17-0.96; P=0.033). While the exact role of the patient-specific miRNA variants within the 3' UTR region of APP and BACE1 demands further analyses, this study does not support a major contribution of miRNA genetic variability to AD pathogenesis.	3' Untranslated Regions;Aged;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/ genetics;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/ genetics;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/ genetics;Base Sequence;Female;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Genetic Variation;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged
Maturation of the human dorsolateral prefrontal cortex coincides with a dynamic shift in microRNA expression	N. J. Beveridge, et al.	2014	23378013	MicroRNA are small RNAs that provide specificity for the RNA induced silencing complex, which forms the basis of an exquisite combinatorial system for posttranscriptional regulation. This system, essential for complex metazoans, is exemplified in the development of the cerebral cortex. To explore the complexity of human cortical miRNA expression in detail, we analyzed RNA from postmortem prefrontal cortex from 97 subjects aged 2 months to 78 years using miRNA microarray. Global miRNA expression was highest in the early years before declining significantly after adolescence (n = 140 decreased, n = 32 increased). Late adolescence was also marked by an inflection point between miRNA on an upward trajectory vs the majority going down. Functional annotation of target genes displaying inverse mRNA expression patterns in the same tissue were overrepresented in neurodevelopmentally significant pathways including neurological disease (most significantly schizophrenia), nervous system development, and cell-to-cell signaling. As mature miRNA expression is largely posttranscriptionally regulated, miRNA biogenesis gene expression was also examined. Dicer and Exportin-5 displayed significant associations with age; however, neither correlated with global miRNA expression across the lifespan. This investigation of cortical miRNA expression provides a framework for understanding the complex posttranscriptional regulatory environment during development and aging that may form a substrate for changes observed in neurodevelopmental disorders.	Adolescent;Adult;Age Factors;Aged;Aging/metabolism;Child;Child, Preschool;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/genetics;Human Development/ physiology;Humans;Infant;Karyopherins/genetics;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Prefrontal Cortex/growth & development/ metabolism/pathology;Ribonuclease III/genetics;Schizophrenia/genetics/ metabolism;Tissue Banks;Young Adult;aging;ment;miRNA;neurodevelop-;prefrontal cortex;schizophrenia
Increased microRNA-34c abundance in Alzheimer's disease circulating blood plasma	S. Bhatnagar, et al.	2014	24550773	Circulating microRNAs, present either in the cellular component, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC), or in cell-free plasma, have emerged as biomarkers for age-dependent systemic, disease-associated changes in many organs. Previously, we have shown that microRNA (miR)-34a is increased in circulating PBMC of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. In the present study, we show that this microRNA's sister, miR-34c, exhibits even greater increase in both cellular and plasma components of AD circulating blood samples, compared to normal age-matched controls. Statistical analysis shows the accuracy of levels of miR-34c assayed by receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis: the area under the curve is 0.99 (p < 0.0001) and the 95% confidence level extends from 0.97 to 1. Pearson correlation between miR-34c levels and mild and moderate AD, as defined by the mini-mental state examination (MMSE), shows an r-value of -0.7, suggesting a relatively strong inverse relationship between the two parameters. These data show that plasma levels of microRNA 34c are much more prominent in AD than those of its sister, miR-34a, or than its own level in PBMC. Transfection studies show that miR-34c, as does its sister miR-34a, represses the expression of several selected genes involved in cell survival and oxidative defense pathways, such as Bcl2, SIRT1, and others, in cultured cells. Taken together, our results indicate that increased levels of miR-34c in both PBMC and plasma may reflect changes in circulating blood samples in AD patients, compared to age-matched normal controls.	miR-34a;miR-34c;peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC);plasma microRNA
Aluminum and its potential contribution to Alzheimer's disease (AD)	S. Bhattacharjee, et al.	2014	24782759		Alzheimer's disease;Feralex-G;Tg2576;aluminum;desferrioxamine;genetic variability;micro RNA (miRNA)
Deficits in the miRNA-34a-regulated endogenous TREM2 phagocytosis sensor-receptor in Alzheimer's disease (AD); an update	S. Bhattacharjee, et al.	2014	24987367		Alzheimer's disease;Trem2;amyloidosis;innate-immune response;miRNA-34a;phagocytosis
Studying the differential co-expression of microRNAs reveals significant role of white matter in early Alzheimer's progression	M. Bhattacharyya and S. Bandyopadhyay	2013	23344858	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of short non-coding RNAs, which show tissue-specific regulatory activity on genes. Expression profiling of miRNAs is an important step for understanding the pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD), a neurodegenerative disorder originating in the brain. Recent studies highlight that miRNAs enriched in gray matter (GM) and white matter (WM) of AD brains show differential expression. However, no in-depth study has yet been conducted on analysing the differential co-expression of pairs of miRNAs over GM and WM. Two genes (or miRNAs) are said to be co-expressed if their expression profiles change similarly over a number of samples. A pair of co-expressed genes under a condition type (or phenotype) may not remain co-expressed, or get contra-expressed, under another condition. Such pairs of genes are referred to as differentially co-expressed. Such an investigation in the early stage of AD is reported in this article. A network of differentially co-expressed miRNAs in GM and WM is first built. Analysis of the differential co-expression property reveals that such a network can not have any cycle. We use the notion of switching to distinguish two distinct types of differential co-expression patterns - a pair of miRNAs that are highly co-expressed in GM but does not remain so in WM, and vice versa. Based on this, we find the substructures, referred to as differentially co-expressed switching tree (DCST), that throughout have similar pattern of switching. The miR-423-5p emerges as a hub of the network. We extract subtrees of these DCSTs that have similar switching pattern throughout. These substructures are found to be both statistically and biologically significant. A large number of miRNAs obtained from the DCSTs are found to have association with AD, most of which are enriched in WM. This computational study therefore indicates a significant role of WM in early AD progression, a hitherto less acknowledged fact.	Aged, 80 and over;Algorithms;Alzheimer Disease/ metabolism/pathology;Cerebral Cortex/ metabolism;Disease Progression;Female;Gene Regulatory Networks;Humans;Metabolic Networks and Pathways;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Models, Biological;Phenotype;Transcriptome
MicroRNAs: an important player in maintaining a balance between inflammation and tumor suppression	D. Bhaumik, et al.	2009	19471128		Animals;Cell Aging/ physiology;Humans;Inflammation/immunology/ metabolism;Interleukin-6/immunology/ metabolism;Interleukin-8/immunology/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/immunology/ metabolism;Neoplasms/ metabolism
MicroRNAs miR-146a/b negatively modulate the senescence-associated inflammatory mediators IL-6 and IL-8	D. Bhaumik, et al.	2009	20148189	Senescence is a cellular program that irreversibly arrests the proliferation of damaged cells and induces the secretion of the inflammatory mediators IL- 6 and IL-8 which are part of a larger senescence associated secretory phenotype (SASP). We screened quiescent and senescent human fibroblasts for differentially expressed microRNAS (miRNAs) and found that miRNAs 146a and 146b (miR-146a/b) were significantly elevated during senescence. We suggest that delayed miR-146a/b induction might be a compensatory response to restrain inflammation. Indeed, ectopic expression of miR-146a/b in primary human fibroblasts suppressed IL-6 and IL-8 secretion and downregulated IRAK1, a crucial component of the IL-1 receptor signal transduction pathway. Cells undergoing senescence without induction of a robust SASP did not express miR-146a/b. Further, IL-1alpha neutralizing antibodies abolished both miR-146a/b expression and IL-6 secretion. Our findings expand the biological contexts in which miRNA-146a/b modulates inflammatory responses. They suggest that IL-1 receptor signaling initiates both miR-146a/b upregulation and cytokine secretion, and that miR-146a/b is expressed in response to rising inflammatory cytokine levels as part of a negative feedback loop that restrains excessive SASP activity.	Aging/ physiology;Cell Line;Fibroblasts/cytology/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation/physiology;Humans;Interleukin-1 Receptor-Associated Kinases/genetics/metabolism;Interleukin-1alpha/genetics/metabolism;Interleukin-6/genetics/ metabolism;Interleukin-8/genetics/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Receptors, Interleukin-1/genetics/metabolism;DNA damage;IL-1alpha;Il-6;Il-8;inflammation;miRNA
PGC-Enriched miRNAs Control Germ Cell Development	J. Bhin, et al.	2015	26442865	Non-coding microRNAs (miRNAs) regulate the translation of target messenger RNAs (mRNAs) involved in the growth and development of a variety of cells, including primordial germ cells (PGCs) which play an essential role in germ cell development. However, the target mRNAs and the regulatory networks influenced by miRNAs in PGCs remain unclear. Here, we demonstrate a novel miRNAs control PGC development through targeting mRNAs involved in various cellular pathways. We reveal the PGC-enriched expression patterns of nine miRNAs, including miR-10b, -18a, -93, -106b, -126-3p, -127, -181a, -181b, and -301, using miRNA expression analysis along with mRNA microarray analysis in PGCs, embryonic gonads, and postnatal testes. These miRNAs are highly expressed in PGCs, as demonstrated by Northern blotting, miRNA in situ hybridization assay, and miRNA qPCR analysis. This integrative study utilizing mRNA microarray analysis and miRNA target prediction demonstrates the regulatory networks through which these miRNAs regulate their potential target genes during PGC development. The elucidated networks of miRNAs disclose a coordinated molecular mechanism by which these miRNAs regulate distinct cellular pathways in PGCs that determine germ cell development.	Animals;Blotting, Northern;Cell Line;Embryo, Mammalian/ metabolism;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Germ Cells/ growth & development/metabolism;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred ICR;MicroRNAs/ genetics/physiology;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;RNA, Messenger/ genetics/physiology;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Testis/ metabolism;bioinformatic analysis;in situ hybridization;male primordial germ cells;miRNAs;microarray
MiR-375 is Essential for Human Spinal Motor Neuron Development and May Be Involved in Motor Neuron Degeneration	A. Bhinge, et al.	2016	26507573	The transcription factor REST is a key suppressor of neuronal genes in non-neuronal tissues. REST has been shown to suppress proneuronal microRNAs in neural progenitors indicating that REST-mediated neurogenic suppression may act in part via microRNAs. We used neural differentiation of Rest-null mouse ESC to identify dozens of microRNAs regulated by REST during neural development. One of the identified microRNAs, miR-375, was upregulated during human spinal motor neuron development. We found that miR-375 facilitates spinal motor neurogenesis by targeting the cyclin kinase CCND2 and the transcription factor PAX6. Additionally, miR-375 inhibits the tumor suppressor p53 and protects neurons from apoptosis in response to DNA damage. Interestingly, motor neurons derived from a spinal muscular atrophy patient displayed depressed miR-375 expression and elevated p53 protein levels. Importantly, SMA motor neurons were significantly more susceptible to DNA damage induced apoptosis suggesting that miR-375 may play a protective role in motor neurons.	Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Base Sequence;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Motor Neurons/ metabolism/ pathology;Muscular Atrophy, Spinal/genetics;Nerve Degeneration/genetics/ pathology;Neurogenesis/genetics;Signal Transduction/genetics;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/metabolism;Ccnd2;Motor neuron;Pax6/rest;miR-375
The mitochondrial lncRNA ASncmtRNA-2 is induced in aging and replicative senescence in Endothelial Cells	V. Bianchessi, et al.	2015	25640160	Age-associated cardiovascular diseases are at least partially ascribable to vascular cell senescence. Replicative senescence (RS) and stress-induced premature senescence (SIPS) are provoked respectively by endogenous (telomere erosion) and exogenous (H2O2, UV) stimuli resulting in cell cycle arrest in G1 and G2 phases. In both scenarios, mitochondria-derived ROS are important players in senescence initiation. We aimed to define whether a mtDNA-transcribed long-non-coding-RNA (lncRNA), ASncmtRNA-2, has a role in vascular aging and senescence. Aortas of old mice, characterized by increased senescence, showed an increment in ASncmtRNA-2 expression. In vitro analysis of Endothelial Cells (EC) and Vascular Smooth Muscle Cells (VSMC) established that ASncmtRNA-2 is induced in EC, but not in VSMC, during RS. Surprisingly, ASncmtRNA-2 is not upregulated in two different EC SIPS scenarios, treated with H2O2 and UV. The p16 gene displayed similar ASncmtRNA-2 expression patterns, suggesting a possible co-regulation of the two genes. Interestingly, the expression of two miRNAs, hsa-miR-4485 and hsa-miR-1973, with perfect homology to the double strand region of ASncmtRNA-2 and originating at least in part from a mitochondrial transcript, was induced in RS, opening to the possibility that this lncRNA functions as a non-canonical precursor of these miRNAs. Cell cycle analysis of EC transiently over-expressing ASncmtRNA-2 revealed an accumulation of EC in the G2/M phase, but not in the G1 phase. We propose that ASncmtRNA-2 in EC might be involved in the RS establishment by participating in the cell cycle arrest in G2/M phase, possibly through the production of hsa-miR-4485 and hsa-miR-1973. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Mitochondria.	Aging/genetics/ metabolism;Animals;Aorta/cytology/metabolism;Base Sequence;Cell Aging;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p16/genetics/metabolism;G2 Phase Cell Cycle Checkpoints/drug effects/radiation effects;Gene Expression Regulation;Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells/cytology/drug;effects/ metabolism/radiation effects;Humans;Hydrogen Peroxide/pharmacology;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Mitochondria/genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Myocytes, Smooth Muscle/cytology/drug effects/ metabolism/radiation effects;RNA/ genetics/metabolism;RNA, Long Noncoding/ genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Ultraviolet Rays;Endothelial cells;Mitochondria;Senescence;Vascular aging;lncRNA;miRNA
MicroRNAs and Molecular Mechanisms of Neurodegeneration	I. Bicchi, et al.	2013	24705162	During the last few years microRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as key mediators of post-transcriptional and epigenetic regulation of gene expression. MiRNAs targets, identified through gene expression profiling and studies in animal models, depict a scenario where miRNAs are fine-tuning metabolic pathways and genetic networks in both plants and animals. MiRNAs have shown to be differentially expressed in brain areas and alterations of miRNAs homeostasis have been recently correlated to pathological conditions of the nervous system, such as cancer and neurodegeneration. Here, we review and discuss the most recent insights into the involvement of miRNAs in the neurodegenerative mechanisms and their correlation with significant neurodegenerative disorders.	
Not miR-ly aging: SIRT1 boosts memory via a microRNA-dependent mechanism	S. Bicker and G. Schratt	2010	20820190		Aging;Animals;CREB-Binding Protein/genetics/metabolism;Memory;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Sirtuin 1/genetics/metabolism/ physiology;YY1 Transcription Factor/metabolism
Long-term Neuroglial Cocultures as a Brain Aging Model: Hallmarks of Senescence, MicroRNA Expression Profiles, and Comparison With In Vivo Models	E. Bigagli, et al.	2016	25568096	Our purpose was to evaluate long-term neuroglial cocultures as a model for investigating senescence in the nervous system and to assess its similarities with in vivo models. To this aim, we maintained the cultures from 15 days in vitro (mature cultures) up to 27 days in vitro (senescent cultures), measuring senescence-associated, neuronal, dendritic, and astrocytic markers. Whole microRNA expression profiles were compared with those measured in the cortex of 18- and 24-month-old C57Bl/6J aged mice and of transgenic TgCRND8 mice, a model of amyloid-beta deposition. Neuroglial cocultures displayed features of cellular senescence (increased senescence-associated-beta-galactosidase activity, oxidative stress, gamma-H2AX expression, IL-6 production, astrogliosis) that were concentration dependently counteracted by the antiaging compound resveratrol (1-5 microM). Among the 1,080 microRNAs analyzed, 335 were downregulated or absent in 27 compared with 15 days in vitro and resveratrol reversed this effect. A substantial overlapping was found between age-associated changes in microRNA expression profiles in vitro and in TgCRND8 mice but not in physiologically aged mice, indicating that this culture model displays more similarities with pathological than physiological brain aging. Our results demonstrate that neuroglial cocultures aged in vitro can be useful for investigating the cellular and molecular mechanisms of brain aging and for preliminary testing of protective compounds.	Aging/ metabolism;Animals;Biomarkers/metabolism;Brain/metabolism/pathology;Cell Aging/ physiology;Cells, Cultured;Coculture Techniques/methods;Disease Models, Animal;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Profiling;Histones/metabolism;Interleukin-6/metabolism;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ analysis;Neurodegenerative Diseases/metabolism/pathology;Neuroglia/ metabolism;Oxidative Stress/physiology;beta-Galactosidase/metabolism;Aging;Microarray;Neurodegeneration.;Neuroglial cocultures;miRNA
A new role for microRNA pathways: modulation of degeneration induced by pathogenic human disease proteins	J. Bilen, et al.	2006	17172864	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs that regulate the expression of target transcript mRNAs. Many miRNAs have been defined, however their roles and the processes influenced by miRNA pathways are still being elucidated. A role for miRNAs in development and cancer has been described. We recently isolated the miRNA bantam (ban) in a genetic screen for modulators of pathogenicity of a human neurodegenerative disease model in Drosophila. These studies showed that upregulation of ban mitigates degeneration induced by the pathogenic polyglutamine (polyQ) protein Ataxin-3, which is mutated in the human polyglutamine disease spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3). To address the broader role for miRNAs in neuroprotection, we also showed that loss of all miRNAs, by dicer mutation, dramatically enhances pathogenic polyQ protein toxicity in flies and in human HeLa cells. These studies suggest that miRNAs may be important for neuronal survival in the context of human neurodegenerative disease. These studies provide the foundation to define the miRNAs involved in neurodegenerative disease, and the biological pathways affected.	Animals;Cyclins/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Drosophila/drug effects;Drosophila Proteins/metabolism;Eye/cytology/pathology;HeLa Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Nerve Degeneration/chemically induced/ genetics/metabolism/ pathology;Neurodegenerative Diseases/chemically induced/genetics/ metabolism/ pathology;Peptides/toxicity;Trinucleotide Repeat Expansion/genetics
MicroRNA pathways modulate polyglutamine-induced neurodegeneration	J. Bilen, et al.	2006	17018300	Nine human neurodegenerative diseases are due to expansion of a CAG repeat- encoding glutamine within the open reading frame of the respective genes. Polyglutamine (polyQ) expansion confers dominant toxicity, resulting in neuronal degeneration. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been shown to modulate programmed cell death during development. To address whether miRNA pathways play a role in neurodegeneration, we tested whether genes critical for miRNA processing modulated toxicity induced by the spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3) protein. These studies revealed a striking enhancement of polyQ toxicity upon reduction of miRNA processing in Drosophila and human cells. In parallel genetic screens, we identified the miRNA bantam (ban) as a potent modulator of both polyQ and tau toxicity in flies. Our studies suggest that ban functions downstream of toxicity of the SCA3 protein, to prevent degeneration. These findings indicate that miRNA pathways dramatically modulate polyQ- and tau-induced neurodegeneration, providing the foundation for new insight into therapeutics.	Animals;Animals, Genetically Modified/metabolism;Ataxin-3;Cyclins/physiology;DNA/chemistry;Drosophila/anatomy & histology/genetics/physiology;Drosophila Proteins/physiology;HeLa Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/metabolism/ physiology;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Neurodegenerative Diseases/genetics;Neurons/ metabolism;Nuclear Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Open Reading Frames;Peptides/ genetics/physiology;Repressor Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Retina/anatomy & histology;Trinucleotide Repeat Expansion;tau Proteins/metabolism
Energy excess is the main cause of accelerated aging of mammals	T. Bilinski, et al.	2015	26079722	The analysis of cases of unusually high longevity of naked mole rats and an alternative explanation of the phenomenon of calorie restriction effects in monkeys allowed for postulating that any factor preventing an excess of energy consumed, leads to increased lifespan, both in evolutionary and an individual lifetime scale. It is postulated that in mammals the most destructive processes resulting in shortening of life are not restricted to the phenomena explained by the hyperfunction theory of Mikhail Blagosklonny. Hyperfunction, understood as unnecessary or even adverse syntheses of cell components, can be to some extent prevented by lowered intake of nutrients when body growth ceases. We postulate also the contribution of glyco/lipotoxicity to aging, resulting from the excess of energy. Besides two other factors seem to participate in aging. One of them is lack of telomerase activity in some somatic cells. The second factor concerns epigenetic phenomena. Excessive activity of epigenetic maintenance system probably turns off some crucial organismal functions. Another epigenetic factor playing important role could be the micro RNA system deciding on expression of numerous age-related diseases. However, low extrinsic mortality from predation is a conditio sine qua non of the expression of all longevity phenotypes in animals. Among all long-lived animals, naked mole rats are unique in the elimination of neoplasia, which is accompanied by delayed functional symptoms of senescence. The question whether simultaneous disappearance of neoplasia and delayed senescence is accidental or not remains open.	Aging/ metabolism;Animals;Energy Metabolism;Haplorhini;Humans;Longevity/ physiology;Mammals/metabolism/ physiology;Mole Rats;aging;energy;epigenetic maintenance system;glyco/lipotoxicity;longevity
Analysis of post-transcriptional regulation during cancer progression using a donor-derived isogenic model of tumorigenesis	L. S. Bisogno and J. D. Keene	2017	28529064	Post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression by RNA binding proteins (RBPs) and non-coding RNAs plays an important role in global gene expression. Many post-transcriptional regulators are misexpressed and misregulated in cancers, resulting in altered programs of protein biosynthesis that can drive tumor progression. While comparative studies of several RBPs and microRNAs expressed in various cancer types have been reported, a model system that can be used to quantify RBP regulation and functional outcomes during the initiation and early stages of tumorigenesis is lacking. It was previously demonstrated that oncogenic transformation of normal human cells can be induced by expressing hTERT, p53DD, cyclin D1, CDK4R24C, C-MYCT58A and H-RASG12V. Here we describe a user-friendly method for generating this genetically defined model of step-wise tumorigenesis beginning with normal donor-derived human cells. This method immortalizes a donor's normal cells in about a week, reducing the chances of senescence. The entire stable system can be established in less than 12weeks. We then demonstrate the utility of such a system in elucidating the expression of multiple RBPs at an early step of tumor formation. We identify significant changes in the expression levels of transcripts encoding RBPs prior to transformation, suggesting that our described donor-derived isogenic system can provide insight about post-transcriptional regulation during the earliest stages of tumorigenesis in the context of diverse genetic backgrounds.	Isogenic models;Post-transcriptional regulation;RNA binding proteins;RNA regulons;Tumorigenesis
DoRiNA 2.0--upgrading the doRiNA database of RNA interactions in post-transcriptional regulation	K. Blin, et al.	2015	25416797	The expression of almost all genes in animals is subject to post-transcriptional regulation by RNA binding proteins (RBPs) and microRNAs (miRNAs). The interactions between both RBPs and miRNAs with mRNA can be mapped on a whole-transcriptome level using experimental and computational techniques established in the past years. The combined action of RBPs and miRNAs is thought to form a post-transcriptional regulatory code. Here we present doRiNA 2.0, available at http://dorina.mdc-berlin.de. In this highly improved new version, we have completely reworked the user interface and expanded the database to improve the usability of the website. Taking into account user feedback over the past years, the input forms for both the simple and the combinatorial search function have been streamlined and combined into a single web page that will also display the search results. Especially, custom uploads is one of the key new features in doRiNA 2.0. To enable the inclusion of doRiNA into third-party analysis pipelines, all operations are accessible via a REST API. Alternatively, local installations can be queried using a Python API. Both the web application and the APIs are available under an OSI-approved Open Source license that allows research and commercial access and re-use.	Animals;Argonaute Proteins/metabolism;Databases, Genetic;Exons;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Internet;Mice;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Nuclear Proteins/metabolism;RNA/metabolism;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional;RNA-Binding Proteins/ metabolism;Serine-Arginine Splicing Factors;Software
A developmental timing microRNA and its target regulate life span in C. elegans	M. Boehm and F. Slack	2005	16373574	The microRNA lin-4 and its target, the putative transcription factor lin-14, control the timing of larval development in Caenorhabditis elegans. Here, we report that lin-4 and lin-14 also regulate life span in the adult. Reducing the activity of lin-4 shortened life span and accelerated tissue aging, whereas overexpressing lin-4 or reducing the activity of lin-14 extended life span. Lifespan extension conferred by a reduction in lin-14 was dependent on the DAF-16 and HSF-1 transcription factors, suggesting that the lin-4-lin-14 pair affects life span through the insulin/insulin-like growth factor-1 pathway. This work reveals a role for microRNAs and developmental timing genes in life-span regulation.	Aging/genetics/physiology;Amino Acid Sequence;Animals;Caenorhabditis elegans/genetics/ physiology;Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins/genetics/metabolism/ physiology;Forkhead Transcription Factors;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Genes, Developmental;Heat-Shock Response;Insulin/metabolism;Insulin-Like Growth Factor I/metabolism;Lipofuscin/metabolism;Longevity/genetics/ physiology;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Molecular Sequence Data;Mutation;Nuclear Proteins/genetics/ physiology;RNA, Helminth/ physiology;Receptor, Insulin/metabolism;Repressor Proteins/ physiology;Signal Transduction;Transcription Factors/physiology
PAPD5-mediated 3' adenylation and subsequent degradation of miR-21 is disrupted in proliferative disease	J. Boele, et al.	2014	25049417	Next-generation sequencing experiments have shown that microRNAs (miRNAs) are expressed in many different isoforms (isomiRs), whose biological relevance is often unclear. We found that mature miR-21, the most widely researched miRNA because of its importance in human disease, is produced in two prevalent isomiR forms that differ by 1 nt at their 3' end, and moreover that the 3' end of miR-21 is posttranscriptionally adenylated by the noncanonical poly(A) polymerase PAPD5. PAPD5 knockdown caused an increase in the miR-21 expression level, suggesting that PAPD5-mediated adenylation of miR-21 leads to its degradation. Exoribonuclease knockdown experiments followed by small-RNA sequencing suggested that PARN degrades miR-21 in the 3'-to-5' direction. In accordance with this model, microarray expression profiling demonstrated that PAPD5 knockdown results in a down-regulation of miR-21 target mRNAs. We found that disruption of the miR-21 adenylation and degradation pathway is a general feature in tumors across a wide range of tissues, as evidenced by data from The Cancer Genome Atlas, as well as in the noncancerous proliferative disease psoriasis. We conclude that PAPD5 and PARN mediate degradation of oncogenic miRNA miR-21 through a tailing and trimming process, and that this pathway is disrupted in cancer and other proliferative diseases.	Adenine/ metabolism;Base Sequence;Cytosine/metabolism;Exoribonucleases/metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Gene Knockdown Techniques;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Humans;MCF-7 Cells;MicroRNAs/chemistry/genetics/ metabolism;Models, Biological;Molecular Sequence Data;Neoplasms/ genetics/pathology;Nucleic Acid Conformation;Protein Isoforms/chemistry/genetics/metabolism;RNA Nucleotidyltransferases/ metabolism;RNA Stability;Ribonuclease III/metabolism;microRNA processing;nucleotidyl transferase
MicroRNA abundance is altered in synaptoneurosomes during prion disease	A. S. Boese, et al.	2016	26658803	Discrepancy in synaptic structural plasticity is one of the earliest manifestations of the neurodegenerative state. In prion diseases, a reduction in synapses and dendritic spine densities is observed during preclinical disease in neurons of the cortex and hippocampus. The underlying molecular mechanisms of these alterations have not been identified but microRNAs (miRNAs), many of which are enriched at the synapse, likely regulate local protein synthesis in rapid response to stressors such as replicating prions. MiRNAs are therefore candidate regulators of these early neurodegenerative changes and may provide clues as to the molecular pathways involved. We therefore determined changes in mature miRNA abundance within synaptoneurosomes isolated from prion-infected, as compared to mock-infected animals, at asymptomatic and symptomatic stages of disease. During preclinical disease, miRNAs that are enriched in neurons including miR-124a-3p, miR-136-5p and miR-376a-3p were elevated. At later stages of disease we found increases in miRNAs that have previously been identified as deregulated in brain tissues of prion infected mice, as well as in Alzheimer's disease (AD) models. These include miR-146a-5p, miR-142-3p, miR-143-3p, miR-145a-5p, miR-451a, miR-let-7b, miR-320 and miR-150-5p. A number of miRNAs also decreased in abundance during clinical disease. These included almost all members of the related miR-200 family (miR-200a-3p, miR-200b-3p, miR-200c-3p, miR-141-3p, and miR-429-3p) and the 182 cluster (miR-182-5p and miR-183-5p).	Animals;Dendrites/metabolism;Hippocampus/metabolism/pathology;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Prion Diseases/ metabolism;Prions/metabolism;Synapses/ metabolism;Dendrite;MiRNA;Neurodegeneration;Prion disease;Synapse;Synaptoneurosome
Genome-wide miR-155 and miR-802 target gene identification in the hippocampus of Ts65Dn Down syndrome mouse model by miRNA sponges	X. Bofill-De Ros, et al.	2015	26546125	BACKGROUND: Down syndrome (DS) or trisomy 21 is the result of a genetic dosage imbalance that translates in a broad clinical spectrum. A major challenge in the study of DS is the identification of functional genetic elements with wide impact on phenotypic alterations. Recently, miRNAs have been recognized as major contributors to several disease conditions by acting as post-transcriptional regulators of a plethora of genes. Five chromosome 21 (HSA21) miRNAs have been found overexpressed in DS individuals and could function as key elements in the pathophysiology. Interestingly, in the trisomic Ts65Dn DS mouse model two of these miRNAs (miR-155 and miR-802) are also triplicated and overexpressed in brain. RESULTS: In the current work, we interrogated the impact of miR-155 and miR-802 upregulation on the transcriptome of Ts65Dn brains. We developed a lentiviral miRNA-sponge strategy (Lv-miR155-802T) to identify in vivo relevant miR-155 and miR-802 target mRNAs. Hippocampal injections of lentiviral sponges in Ts65Dn mice normalized the expression of miR-155 and miR-802 and rescued the levels of their targets methyl-CpG-binding protein 2 gene (Mecp2), SH2 (Src homology 2)-containing inositol phosphatase-1 (Ship1) and Forkhead box protein M1 (FoxM1). Transcriptomic data of Lv-miR155-802T miRNA-sponge treated hippocampi correlated with candidate targets highlighting miRNA dosage-sensitive genes. Significant associations were found in a subset of genes (Rufy2, Nova1, Nav1, Thoc1 and Sumo3) that could be experimentally validated. CONCLUSIONS: The lentiviral miRNA-sponge strategy demonstrated the genome-wide regulatory effects of miR-155 and miR-802. Furthermore, the analysis combining predicted candidates and experimental transcriptomic data proved to retrieve genes with potential significance in DS-hippocampal phenotype bridging with DS other neurological-associated diseases such as Alzheimer's disease.	Animals;Cell Line;Down Syndrome/ genetics;HeLa Cells;Hippocampus/ metabolism;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics
MicroRNA-298 and microRNA-328 regulate expression of mouse beta-amyloid precursor protein-converting enzyme 1	V. Boissonneault, et al.	2009	18986979	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are key regulatory RNAs known to repress mRNA translation through recognition of specific binding sites located mainly in their 3'-untranslated region (UTR). Loss of specific miRNA control of gene expression is thus expected to underlie serious genetic diseases. Intriguingly, previous post-mortem analyses showed higher beta-amyloid precursor protein-converting enzyme (BACE) protein, but not mRNA, levels in the brain of patients that suffered from Alzheimer disease (AD). Here we also observed a loss of correlation between BACE1 mRNA and protein levels in the hippocampus of a mouse model of AD. Consistent with an impairment of miRNA-mediated regulation of BACE1 expression, these findings prompted us to investigate the regulatory role of the BACE1 3'-UTR element and the possible involvement of specific miRNAs in cultured neuronal (N2a) and fibroblastic (NIH 3T3) cells. Through various experimental approaches, we validated computational predictions and demonstrated that miR-298 and miR-328 recognize specific binding sites in the 3'-UTR of BACE1 mRNA and exert regulatory effects on BACE1 protein expression in cultured neuronal cells. Our results may provide the molecular basis underlying BACE1 deregulation in AD and offer new perspectives on the etiology of this neurological disorder.	Aging/physiology;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/genetics/ metabolism;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/metabolism;Animals;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/genetics/ metabolism;Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Brain/metabolism;Cell Line;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic/ genetics;Mice;MicroRNAs/chemistry/ genetics;Nucleic Acid Conformation;Protein Processing, Post-Translational;RNA, Messenger/genetics
PTP1B: mediating ROS signaling to silence genes	B. Boivin and N. K. Tonks	2015	27308433	Numerous studies have shown that normal cells often respond to the activation of oncogenes by undergoing reactive oxygen species-dependent induction of senescence. Here, we discuss our recent publication identifying protein tyrosine phosphatase PTP1B as an important redox-controlled checkpoint for senescence downstream of oncogenic RAS.	Ptp1b;argonaute;cancer;gene silencing;microRNAs;oncogene;p21;phosphatase;reactive oxygen species;senescence
p53-mediated activation of miRNA34 candidate tumor-suppressor genes	G. T. Bommer, et al.	2007	17656095	BACKGROUND: In response to varied cell stress signals, the p53 tumor-suppressor protein activates a multitude of genes encoding proteins with functions in cell-cycle control, DNA repair, senescence, and apoptosis. The role of p53 in transcription of other types of RNAs, such as microRNAs (miRNAs) is essentially unknown. RESULTS: Using gene-expression analyses, reporter gene assays, and chromatin-immunoprecipitation approaches, we present definitive evidence that the abundance of the three-member miRNA34 family is directly regulated by p53 in cell lines and tissues. Using array-based approaches and algorithm predictions, we define genes likely to be directly regulated by miRNA34, with cell-cycle regulatory genes being the most prominent class. In addition, we provide functional evidence, obtained via antisense oligonucleotide transfection and the use of mouse embryonic stem cells with loss of miRNA34a function, that the BCL2 protein is regulated directly by miRNA34. Finally, we demonstrate that the expression of two miRNA34s is dramatically reduced in 6 of 14 (43%) non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLCs) and that the restoration of miRNA34 expression inhibits growth of NSCLC cells. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, the data suggest the miRNA34s might be key effectors of p53 tumor-suppressor function, and their inactivation might contribute to certain cancers.	Animals;Apoptosis;Cell Cycle;Cell Line;Embryonic Stem Cells/cytology;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Genes, Tumor Suppressor;Humans;Lung Neoplasms/genetics/metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2/metabolism;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ metabolism
Circulating microRNAs in aging	M. Bonafe and F. Olivieri	2015	25633812		Aging/ blood;Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2/ blood;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood
Genomic comparison of the ants Camponotus floridanus and Harpegnathos saltator	R. Bonasio, et al.	2010	20798317	The organized societies of ants include short-lived worker castes displaying specialized behavior and morphology and long-lived queens dedicated to reproduction. We sequenced and compared the genomes of two socially divergent ant species: Camponotus floridanus and Harpegnathos saltator. Both genomes contained high amounts of CpG, despite the presence of DNA methylation, which in non-Hymenoptera correlates with CpG depletion. Comparison of gene expression in different castes identified up-regulation of telomerase and sirtuin deacetylases in longer-lived H. saltator reproductives, caste-specific expression of microRNAs and SMYD histone methyltransferases, and differential regulation of genes implicated in neuronal function and chemical communication. Our findings provide clues on the molecular differences between castes in these two ants and establish a new experimental model to study epigenetics in aging and behavior.	Aging/genetics;Amino Acid Sequence;Animals;Ants/classification/ genetics/physiology;Behavior, Animal;DNA/chemistry/genetics;Dinucleoside Phosphates/analysis;Epigenesis, Genetic;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Genes, Insect;Genome;Group III Histone Deacetylases/genetics/metabolism;Hydrocarbons/metabolism;Insect Proteins/chemistry/ genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics;Molecular Sequence Data;Protein Methyltransferases/genetics/metabolism;Proteome;Repetitive Sequences, Nucleic Acid;Sequence Analysis, DNA;Social Behavior;Species Specificity;Telomerase/genetics/metabolism
A microarray approach to identify genes involved in seed-pericarp cross-talk and development in peach	C. Bonghi, et al.	2011	21679395	BACKGROUND: Field observations and a few physiological studies have demonstrated that peach embryogenesis and fruit development are tightly coupled. In fact, attempts to stimulate parthenocarpic fruit development by means of external tools have failed. Moreover, physiological disturbances during early embryo development lead to seed abortion and fruitlet abscission. Later in embryo development, the interactions between seed and fruit development become less strict. As there is limited genetic and molecular information about seed-pericarp cross-talk and development in peach, a massive gene approach based on the use of the muPEACH 1.0 array platform and quantitative real time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) was used to study this process. RESULTS: A comparative analysis of the transcription profiles conducted in seed and mesocarp (cv Fantasia) throughout different developmental stages (S1, S2, S3 and S4) evidenced that 455 genes are differentially expressed in seed and fruit. Among differentially expressed genes some were validated as markers in two subsequent years and in three different genotypes. Seed markers were a LTP1 (lipid transfer protein), a PR (pathogenesis-related) protein, a prunin and LEA (Late Embryogenesis Abundant) protein, for S1, S2, S3 and S4, respectively. Mesocarp markers were a RD22-like protein, a serin-carboxypeptidase, a senescence related protein and an Aux/IAA, for S1, S2, S3 and S4, respectively.The microarray data, analyzed by using the HORMONOMETER platform, allowed the identification of hormone-responsive genes, some of them putatively involved in seed-pericarp crosstalk. Results indicated that auxin, cytokinins, and gibberellins are good candidates, acting either directly (auxin) or indirectly as signals during early development, when the cross-talk is more active and vital for fruit set, whereas abscisic acid and ethylene may be involved later on. CONCLUSIONS: In this research, genes were identified marking different phases of seed and mesocarp development. The selected genes behaved as good seed markers, while for mesocarp their reliability appeared to be dependent upon developmental and ripening traits. Regarding the cross-talk between seed and pericarp, possible candidate signals were identified among hormones.Further investigations relying upon the availability of whole genome platforms will allow the enrichment of a marker genes repertoire and the elucidation of players other than hormones that are involved in seed-pericarp cross-talk (i.e. hormone peptides and microRNAs).	Carrier Proteins/genetics;Fruit/genetics/ growth & development;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Gene Expression Regulation, Plant;Genes, Plant;Genotype;Microarray Analysis;Plant Growth Regulators/genetics;Plant Proteins/genetics;Prunus/ genetics/growth & development;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Seeds/genetics/ growth & development;Signal Transduction;Transcription Factors/genetics
MiRNA profile associated with replicative senescence, extended cell culture, and ectopic telomerase expression in human foreskin fibroblasts	L. N. Bonifacio and M. B. Jarstfer	2010	20824140	Senescence is a highly regulated process that limits cellular replication by enforcing a G1 arrest in response to various stimuli. Replicative senescence occurs in response to telomeric DNA erosion, and telomerase expression can offset replicative senescence leading to immortalization of many human cells. Limited data exists regarding changes of microRNA (miRNA) expression during senescence in human cells and no reports correlate telomerase expression with regulation of senescence-related miRNAs. We used miRNA microarrays to provide a detailed account of miRNA profiles for early passage and senescent human foreskin (BJ) fibroblasts as well as early and late passage immortalized fibroblasts (BJ-hTERT) that stably express the human telomerase reverse transcriptase subunit hTERT. Selected miRNAs that were differentially expressed in senescence were assayed for expression in quiescent cells to identify miRNAs that are specifically associated with senescence-associated growth arrest. From this group of senescence-associated miRNAs, we confirmed the ability of miR-143 to induce growth arrest after ectopic expression in young fibroblasts. Remarkably, miR-143 failed to induce growth arrest in BJ-hTERT cells. Importantly, the comparison of late passage immortalized fibroblasts to senescent wild type fibroblasts reveals that miR-146a, a miRNA with a validated role in regulating the senescence associated secretory pathway, is also regulated during extended cell culture independently of senescence. The discovery that miRNA expression is impacted by expression of ectopic hTERT as well as extended passaging in immortalized fibroblasts contributes to a comprehensive understanding of the connections between telomerase expression, senescence and processes of cellular aging.	Cell Aging;Cell Cycle;Cell Line;Cells, Cultured;Fibroblasts/ cytology/enzymology/metabolism;Foreskin/ cytology/enzymology/metabolism;Gene Expression;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Telomerase/ genetics/metabolism
MicroRNA-34a regulates cardiac ageing and function	R. A. Boon, et al.	2013	23426265	Ageing is the predominant risk factor for cardiovascular diseases and contributes to a significantly worse outcome in patients with acute myocardial infarction. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as crucial regulators of cardiovascular function and some miRNAs have key roles in ageing. We propose that altered expression of miRNAs in the heart during ageing contributes to the age-dependent decline in cardiac function. Here we show that miR-34a is induced in the ageing heart and that in vivo silencing or genetic deletion of miR-34a reduces age-associated cardiomyocyte cell death. Moreover, miR-34a inhibition reduces cell death and fibrosis following acute myocardial infarction and improves recovery of myocardial function. Mechanistically, we identified PNUTS (also known as PPP1R10) as a novel direct miR-34a target, which reduces telomere shortening, DNA damage responses and cardiomyocyte apoptosis, and improves functional recovery after acute myocardial infarction. Together, these results identify age-induced expression of miR-34a and inhibition of its target PNUTS as a key mechanism that regulates cardiac contractile function during ageing and after acute myocardial infarction, by inducing DNA damage responses and telomere attrition.	Aging/genetics/pathology/ physiology;Animals;Apoptosis;DNA Damage;Fibrosis/genetics/pathology;Gene Deletion;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Knockout Techniques;Genetic Therapy;Heart/ physiology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Myocardial Infarction/genetics/pathology/therapy;Myocardium/cytology/ metabolism/pathology;Myocytes, Cardiac/cytology/metabolism/pathology;Substrate Specificity;Telomere/genetics/metabolism
MicroRNA-29 in aortic dilation: implications for aneurysm formation	R. A. Boon, et al.	2011	21903938	RATIONALE: Aging represents a major risk factor for coronary artery disease and aortic aneurysm formation. MicroRNAs (miRs) have emerged as key regulators of biological processes, but their role in age-associated vascular pathologies is unknown. OBJECTIVE: We aim to identify miRs in the vasculature that are regulated by age and play a role in age-induced vascular pathologies. METHODS AND RESULTS: Expression profiling of aortic tissue of young versus old mice identified several age-associated miRs. Among the significantly regulated miRs, the increased expression of miR-29 family members was associated with a profound downregulation of numerous extracellular matrix (ECM) components in aortas of aged mice, suggesting that this miR family contributes to ECM loss, thereby sensitizing the aorta for aneurysm formation. Indeed, miR-29 expression was significantly induced in 2 experimental models for aortic dilation: angiotensin II-treated aged mice and genetically induced aneurysms in Fibulin-4(R/R) mice. More importantly, miR-29b levels were profoundly increased in biopsies of human thoracic aneurysms, obtained from patients with either bicuspid (n=79) or tricuspid aortic valves (n=30). Finally, LNA-modified antisense oligonucleotide-mediated silencing of miR-29 induced ECM expression and inhibited angiotensin II-induced dilation of the aorta in mice. CONCLUSION: In conclusion, miR-29-mediated downregulation of ECM proteins may sensitize the aorta to the formation of aneurysms in advanced age. Inhibition of miR-29 in vivo abrogates aortic dilation in mice, suggesting that miR-29 may represent a novel molecular target to augment matrix synthesis and maintain vascular wall structural integrity.	Aging/genetics;Angiotensin II;Animals;Aorta/ metabolism/pathology;Aortic Aneurysm/chemically induced/ genetics/metabolism/pathology/prevention &;control;Biopsy;Dilatation, Pathologic;Disease Models, Animal;Extracellular Matrix Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;Humans;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ analysis/ metabolism;Mutation;Oligoribonucleotides, Antisense/administration & dosage
Multiple microRNAs rescue from Ras-induced senescence by inhibiting p21(Waf1/Cip1)	V. Borgdorff, et al.	2010	20101223	Overexpression of Ras(G12V) in primary cells induces a permanent growth arrest called oncogene-induced senescence (OIS) that serves as a fail-safe mechanism against malignant transformation. We have performed a genome-wide small interfering RNA (siRNA) screen and a microRNA (miRNA) screen to identify mediators of OIS and show that siRNA-mediated knockdown of p21(Waf1/Cip1) rescues from Ras(G12V)-induced senescence in human mammary epithelial cells (HMECs). Moreover, we isolated a total of 28 miRNAs that prevented Ras(G12V)-induced growth arrest, among which all of the miR-106b family members were present. In addition, we obtained a number of hits, miR-130b, miR-302a, miR-302b, miR302c, miR-302d, miR-512-3p and miR-515-3p with seed sequences very similar to miR-106b family members. We show that overexpression of all these miRNAs rescues HMECs from Ras(G12V)-induced senescence by prevention of Ras(G12V)-induced upregulation of p21(Waf1/Cip1). Our results establish an important role for the cell cycle inhibitor p21(Waf1/Cip1) in growth control of HMECs and extend the repertoire of miRNAs that modulate the activity of this tumour suppressor.	Animals;Base Sequence;Cell Aging;Cell Cycle/genetics;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/ deficiency/ genetics;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Humans;Mammary Glands, Human/cytology/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics;Up-Regulation;ras Proteins/ metabolism
Adipogenic differentiation of human mesenchymal stromal cells is down-regulated by microRNA-369-5p and up-regulated by microRNA-371	S. Bork, et al.	2011	21660946	Long-term culture of human mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) has implications on their proliferation and differentiation potential and we have demonstrated that this is associated with up-regulation of the five microRNAs miR-29c, miR-369-5p, miR-371, miR-499, and let-7f. In this study, we examined the role of these senescence-associated microRNAs for cellular aging and differentiation of MSC. Proliferation was reduced upon transfection with miR-369-5p, miR-371, and miR-499. Adipogenic differentiation was impaired by miR-369-5p whereas it was highly increased by miR-371. This was accompanied by respective gene expression changes of some adipogenic key molecules (adiponectin and fatty acid-binding protein 4 [FABP4]). Furthermore luciferase reporter assay indicated that FABP4 is a direct target of miR-369-5p. Microarray analysis upon adipogenic or osteogenic differentiation revealed down-regulation of several microRNAs albeit miR-369-5p and miR-371 were not affected. Expression of the de novo DNA methyltransferases DNMT3A and DNMT3B was up-regulated by transfection of miR-371 whereas expression of DNMT3A was down-regulated by miR-369-5p. In summary, we identified miR-369-5p and miR-371 as antagonistic up-stream regulators of adipogenic differentiation and this might be indirectly mediated by epigenetic modifications.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Adipogenesis/ genetics;Biomarkers/metabolism;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Proliferation;DNA (Cytosine-5-)-Methyltransferase/genetics/metabolism;Down-Regulation/ genetics;Fatty Acid-Binding Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ cytology/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Stromal Cells/cytology/metabolism;Transfection;Up-Regulation/ genetics
miR-449 inhibits cell proliferation and is down-regulated in gastric cancer	T. Bou Kheir, et al.	2011	21418558	BACKGROUND: Gastric cancer is the fourth most common cancer in the world and the second most prevalent cause of cancer related death. The development of gastric cancer is mainly associated with H. Pylori infection leading to a focus in pathology studies on bacterial and environmental factors, and to a lesser extent on the mechanistic development of the tumour. MicroRNAs are small non-coding RNA molecules involved in post-transcriptional gene regulation. They are found to regulate genes involved in diverse biological functions and alterations in microRNA expression have been linked to the pathogenesis of many malignancies. The current study is focused on identifying microRNAs involved in gastric carcinogenesis and to explore their mechanistic relevance by characterizing their targets. RESULTS: Invitrogen NCode miRNA microarrays identified miR-449 to be decreased in 1-year-old Gastrin KO mice and in H. Pylori infected gastric tissues compared to tissues from wild type animals. Growth rate of gastric cell lines over-expressing miR-449 was inhibited by 60% compared to controls. FACS cell cycle analysis of miR-449 over-expressing cells showed a significant increase in the sub-G1 fraction indicative of apoptosis. ss-Gal assays indicated a senescent phenotype of gastric cell lines over-expressing miR-449. Affymetrix 133v2 arrays identified GMNN, MET, CCNE2, SIRT1 and CDK6 as miR-449 targets. Luciferase assays were used to confirm GMNN, MET, CCNE2 and SIRT1 as direct targets. We also show that miR-449 over-expression activated p53 and its downstream target p21 as well as the apoptosis markers cleaved CASP3 and PARP. Importantly, qPCR analyses showed a loss of miR-449 expression in human clinical gastric tumours compared to normal tissues. CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we document a diminished expression of miR-449 in Gastrin KO mice and further confirmed its loss in human gastric tumours. We investigated the function of miR-449 by identifying its direct targets. Furthermore we show that miR-449 induces senescence and apoptosis by activating the p53 pathway.	Adenoma/pathology;Animals;Base Sequence;Cell Aging;Cell Cycle;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Down-Regulation/ genetics;Gastrins/deficiency/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Helicobacter Infections/complications/genetics;Helicobacter pylori/physiology;Humans;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Pyloric Antrum/metabolism/pathology;Signal Transduction/genetics;Stomach Neoplasms/complications/ genetics/ pathology;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/metabolism
The C. elegans microRNA mir-71 acts in neurons to promote germline-mediated longevity through regulation of DAF-16/FOXO	K. Boulias and H. R. Horvitz	2012	22482727	The life span of Caenorhabditis elegans is controlled by signaling between the germline and the soma. Germ cell removal extends life span by triggering the activation of the DAF-16/FOXO transcription factor in the intestine. Here we analyze microRNA function in C. elegans aging and show that the microRNA mir-71 functions to mediate the effects of germ cell loss on life span. mir-71 is required for the life span extension caused by germline removal, and overexpression of mir-71 further extends the life span of animals lacking germ cells. mir-71 functions in the nervous system to facilitate the localization and transcriptional activity of DAF-16 in the intestine. Our findings reveal a microRNA-dependent mechanism of life span regulation by the germline and indicate that signaling among the gonad, the nervous system, and the intestine coordinates the life span of the entire organism.	Animals;Caenorhabditis elegans/cytology/ genetics/ metabolism;Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins/ metabolism;Cell Lineage/genetics;Forkhead Transcription Factors;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Germ Cells/cytology/ metabolism;Intestines/cytology/metabolism;Longevity;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Models, Biological;Neurons/cytology/ metabolism;Protein Transport;Stress, Physiological/genetics;Transcription Factors/ metabolism;Transcription, Genetic
Alternative polyadenylation mediates microRNA regulation of muscle stem cell function	S. C. Boutet, et al.	2012	22385659	Pax3, a key myogenic regulator, is transiently expressed during activation of adult muscle stem cells, or satellite cells (SCs), and is also expressed in a subset of quiescent SCs (QSCs), but only in specific muscles. The mechanisms regulating these variations in expression are not well understood. Here we show that Pax3 levels are regulated by miR-206, a miRNA with a previously demonstrated role in myogenic differentiation. In most QSCs and activated SCs, miR-206 expression suppresses Pax3 expression. Paradoxically, QSCs that express high levels of Pax3 also express high levels of miR-206. In these QSCs, Pax3 transcripts are subject to alternative polyadenylation, resulting in transcripts with shorter 3' untranslated regions (3'UTRs) that render them resistant to regulation by miR-206. Similar alternate polyadenylation of the Pax3 transcript also occurs in myogenic progenitors during development. Our findings may reflect a general role of alternative polyadenylation in circumventing miRNA-mediated regulation of stem cell function.	Animals;Cell Line;Cells, Cultured;Cloning, Molecular;Embryo, Mammalian;Fluorescent Antibody Technique;Gene Expression Regulation;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Models, Biological;Myoblasts/ metabolism;Paired Box Transcription Factors/genetics;Polyadenylation;Polymerase Chain Reaction;Stem Cells/cytology/ metabolism
Age-specific signatures of glioblastoma at the genomic, genetic, and epigenetic levels	S. Bozdag, et al.	2013	23658659	Age is a powerful predictor of survival in glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) yet the biological basis for the difference in clinical outcome is mostly unknown. Discovering genes and pathways that would explain age-specific survival difference could generate opportunities for novel therapeutics for GBM. Here we have integrated gene expression, exon expression, microRNA expression, copy number alteration, SNP, whole exome sequence, and DNA methylation data sets of a cohort of GBM patients in The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) project to discover age-specific signatures at the transcriptional, genetic, and epigenetic levels and validated our findings on the REMBRANDT data set. We found major age-specific signatures at all levels including age-specific hypermethylation in polycomb group protein target genes and the upregulation of angiogenesis-related genes in older GBMs. These age-specific differences in GBM, which are independent of molecular subtypes, may in part explain the preferential effects of anti-angiogenic agents in older GBM and pave the way to a better understanding of the unique biology and clinical behavior of older versus younger GBMs.	Adult;Age Factors;Aged;Aging/ genetics/pathology;Angiogenesis Inhibitors/therapeutic use;Brain Neoplasms/blood supply/drug therapy/ genetics/mortality;DNA Copy Number Variations;DNA Methylation;Epigenesis, Genetic;Exons;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Glioblastoma/blood supply/drug therapy/ genetics/mortality;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs;Middle Aged;Neovascularization, Pathologic;Polycomb-Group Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Survival Analysis
Comprehensive, Integrative Genomic Analysis of Diffuse Lower-Grade Gliomas	D. J. Brat, et al.	2015	26061751	BACKGROUND: Diffuse low-grade and intermediate-grade gliomas (which together make up the lower-grade gliomas, World Health Organization grades II and III) have highly variable clinical behavior that is not adequately predicted on the basis of histologic class. Some are indolent; others quickly progress to glioblastoma. The uncertainty is compounded by interobserver variability in histologic diagnosis. Mutations in IDH, TP53, and ATRX and codeletion of chromosome arms 1p and 19q (1p/19q codeletion) have been implicated as clinically relevant markers of lower-grade gliomas. METHODS: We performed genomewide analyses of 293 lower-grade gliomas from adults, incorporating exome sequence, DNA copy number, DNA methylation, messenger RNA expression, microRNA expression, and targeted protein expression. These data were integrated and tested for correlation with clinical outcomes. RESULTS: Unsupervised clustering of mutations and data from RNA, DNA-copy-number, and DNA-methylation platforms uncovered concordant classification of three robust, nonoverlapping, prognostically significant subtypes of lower-grade glioma that were captured more accurately by IDH, 1p/19q, and TP53 status than by histologic class. Patients who had lower-grade gliomas with an IDH mutation and 1p/19q codeletion had the most favorable clinical outcomes. Their gliomas harbored mutations in CIC, FUBP1, NOTCH1, and the TERT promoter. Nearly all lower-grade gliomas with IDH mutations and no 1p/19q codeletion had mutations in TP53 (94%) and ATRX inactivation (86%). The large majority of lower-grade gliomas without an IDH mutation had genomic aberrations and clinical behavior strikingly similar to those found in primary glioblastoma. CONCLUSIONS: The integration of genomewide data from multiple platforms delineated three molecular classes of lower-grade gliomas that were more concordant with IDH, 1p/19q, and TP53 status than with histologic class. Lower-grade gliomas with an IDH mutation either had 1p/19q codeletion or carried a TP53 mutation. Most lower-grade gliomas without an IDH mutation were molecularly and clinically similar to glioblastoma. (Funded by the National Institutes of Health.).	Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Chromosomes, Human, Pair 1;Chromosomes, Human, Pair 19;Cluster Analysis;DNA, Neoplasm/ analysis;Female;Genes, p53;Glioblastoma/genetics;Glioma/ genetics/metabolism/mortality;Humans;Kaplan-Meier Estimate;Male;Middle Aged;Mutation;Neoplasm Grading;Proportional Hazards Models;Sequence Analysis, DNA;Signal Transduction
p53-Responsive micrornas 192 and 215 are capable of inducing cell cycle arrest	C. J. Braun, et al.	2008	19074875	microRNAs provide a novel layer of regulation for gene expression by interfering with the stability and/or translation of specific target mRNAs. Overall levels of microRNAs are frequently down-regulated in cancer cells, and reducing general microRNA processing increases cancerogenesis in transgenic models, suggesting that at least some microRNAs might act as effectors in tumor suppression. Accordingly, the tumor suppressor p53 up-regulates miR-34a, a microRNA that contributes to apoptosis and acute senescence. Here, we used array hybridization to find that p53 induces two additional, mutually related clusters of microRNAs, leading to the up-regulation of miR-192, miR-194, and miR-215. The same microRNAs were detected at high levels in normal colon tissue but were severely reduced in many colon cancer samples. On the other hand, miR-192 and its cousin miR-215 can each contribute to enhanced CDKN1A/p21 levels, colony suppression, cell cycle arrest, and cell detachment from a solid support. These effects were partially dependent on the presence of wild-type p53. Antagonizing endogenous miR-192 attenuated 5-fluorouracil-induced accumulation of p21. Hence, miR-192 and miR-215 can act as effectors as well as regulators of p53; they seem to suppress cancerogenesis through p21 accumulation and cell cycle arrest.	Bone Neoplasms/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Cell Adhesion/genetics;Cell Cycle/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Colonic Neoplasms/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/biosynthesis/genetics;Genes, p53;HCT116 Cells;HT29 Cells;Humans;Imidazoles/pharmacology;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/ biosynthesis/genetics;Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism/ pathology;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Osteosarcoma/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Piperazines/pharmacology;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-mdm2/metabolism;Transfection;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ genetics/metabolism;Up-Regulation
Differential effects of social and physical environmental enrichment on brain plasticity, cognition, and ultrasonic communication in rats	J. C. Brenes, et al.	2016	26132842	Environmental enrichment (EE) exerts beneficial effects on brain plasticity, cognition, and anxiety/depression, leading to a brain that can counteract deficits underlying various brain disorders. Because the complexity of the EE commonly used makes it difficult to identify causal aspects, we examined possible factors using a 2 x 2 design with social EE (two vs. six rats) and physical EE (physically enriched vs. nonenriched). For the first time, we demonstrate that social and physical EE have differential effects on brain plasticity, cognition, and ultrasonic communication. Expectedly, physical EE promoted neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation, but not in the subventricular zone, and, as a novel finding, affected microRNA expression levels, with the activity-dependent miR-124 and miR-132 being upregulated. Concomitant improvements in cognition were observed, yet social deficits were seen in the emission of prosocial 50-kHz ultrasonic vocalizations (USV) paralleled by a lack of social approach in response to them, consistent with the intense world syndrome/theory of autism. In contrast, social EE had only minor effects on brain plasticity and cognition, but led to increased prosocial 50-kHz USV emission rates and enhanced social approach behavior. Importantly, social deficits following physical EE were prevented by additional social EE. The finding that social EE has positive whereas physical EE has negative effects on social behavior indicates that preclinical studies focusing on EE as a potential treatment in models for neuropsychiatric disorders characterized by social deficits, such as autism, should include social EE in addition to physical EE, because its lack might worsen social deficits.	Animals;Brain/growth & development/ physiology;Cognition/ physiology;Housing, Animal;Male;Neurogenesis/physiology;Neuronal Plasticity/ physiology;Rats;Rats, Wistar;Social Environment;Vocalization, Animal/ physiology;Ab_2160651;Rrid: ab_10013660;autism;enriched environment;learning and memory;microRNA;neurogenesis;nif-0000-30176;nif-0000-3092;nlx_144442;nlx_152478;social behavior;ultrasonic vocalization
Activated mineralocorticoid receptor regulates micro-RNA-29b in vascular smooth muscle cells	M. Bretschneider, et al.	2016	26728178	Inappropriately activated mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) is a risk factor for vascular remodeling with unclear molecular mechanism. Recent findings suggest that post-transcriptional regulation by micro-RNAs (miRs) may be involved. Our aim was to search for MR-dependent miRs in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) and to explore the underlying molecular mechanism and the pathologic relevance. We detected that aldosteroneviathe MR reduces miR-29bin vivoin murine aorta and in human primary and cultured VSMCs (ED50= 0.07 nM) but not in endothelial cells [quantitative PCR (qPCR), luciferase assays]. This effect was mediated by an increased decay of miR-29b in the cytoplasm with unchanged miR-29 family member or primary-miR levels. Decreased miR-29b led to an increase in extracellular matrix measured by ELISA and qPCR and enhanced VSMC migration in single cell-tracking experiments. Additionally, cell proliferation and the apoptosis/necrosis ratio (caspase/lactate dehydrogenase assay) was modulated by miR-29b. Enhanced VSMC migration by aldosterone required miR-29b regulation. Control experiments were performed with scrambled RNA and empty plasmids, by comparing aldosterone-stimulated with vehicle-incubated cells. Overall, our findings provide novel insights into the molecular mechanism of aldosterone-mediated vascular pathogenesis by identifying miR-29b as a pathophysiologic relevant target of activated MR in VSMCs and by highlighting the importance of miR processing for miR regulation.-Bretschneider, M., Busch, B., Mueller, D., Nolze, A., Schreier, B., Gekle, M., Grossmann, C. Activated mineralocorticoid receptor regulates micro-RNA-29b in vascular smooth muscle cells.	Aldosterone/pharmacology;Animals;Aorta/drug effects/metabolism;Apoptosis/genetics;Cell Line;Cell Movement/drug effects/genetics;Cell Proliferation/genetics;Cells, Cultured;Collagen/metabolism;Fibronectins/metabolism;Humans;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Muscle, Smooth, Vascular/ cytology;Myocytes, Smooth Muscle/drug effects/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Receptors, Mineralocorticoid/agonists/ genetics;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Transcriptome/drug effects/genetics;aldosterone;post-transcriptional regulation;vascular aging;vascular disease
The microRNA cluster miR-106b~25 regulates adult neural stem/progenitor cell proliferation and neuronal differentiation	J. O. Brett, et al.	2011	21386132	In adult mammals, neural stem cells (NSCs) generate new neurons that are important for specific types of learning and memory. Controlling adult NSC number and function is fundamental for preserving the stem cell pool and ensuring proper levels of neurogenesis throughout life. Here we study the importance of the microRNA gene cluster miR-106b~25 (miR-106b, miR-93, and miR-25) in primary cultures of neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) isolated from adult mice. We find that knocking down miR-25 decreases NSPC proliferation, whereas ectopically expressing miR-25 promotes NSPC proliferation. Expressing the entire miR-106b~25 cluster in NSPCs also increases their ability to generate new neurons. Interestingly, miR-25 has a number of potential target mRNAs involved in insulin/insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF) signaling, a pathway implicated in aging. Furthermore, the regulatory region of miR-106b~25 is bound by FoxO3, a member of the FoxO family of transcription factors that maintains adult stem cells and extends lifespan downstream of insulin/IGF signaling. These results suggest that miR-106b~25 regulates NSPC function and is part of a network involving the insulin/IGF-FoxO pathway, which may have important implications for the homeostasis of the NSC pool during aging.	Animals;Cell Differentiation/ genetics;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Forkhead Box Protein O3;Forkhead Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;Insulin/metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Multigene Family;Neural Stem Cells/cytology/ physiology;Neurogenesis/ physiology;Signal Transduction/physiology;Transforming Growth Factor beta/genetics/metabolism
Preserved neurogenesis in non-demented individuals with AD neuropathology	D. Briley, et al.	2016	27298190	Rare individuals remain cognitively intact despite the presence of neuropathology usually associated with fully symptomatic Alzheimer's disease (AD), which we refer to as Non-Demented with Alzheimer's disease Neuropathology (NDAN). Understanding the involved mechanism(s) of their cognitive resistance may reveal novel strategies to treat AD-related dementia. In the pursuit of this goal, we determined the number of hippocampal neural stem cells (NSCs) and investigated the expression of several miRNAs in NDAN and AD subjects. Laser-capture microdissection of autopsy human hippocampus DG and qRT-PCR miRNA analyses were combined with immunofluorescence in this study. The number of SOX2(+) NSCs in the DG was significantly increased in NDAN individuals as compared to AD subjects. Further, the prevalence of SOX2(+) NSCs was found to correlate with cognitive capacity. Neurogenesis-regulating miRNAs were decreased in NDAN individuals as compared to AD patients. An increased number of NSCs and new neurons in NDAN individuals is associated with a unique expression of regulating miRNAs and strongly support a role of neurogenesis in mediating, in part, the ability of these individuals to resist the pathological burden of AD.	
p53-Repressed miRNAs are involved with E2F in a feed-forward loop promoting proliferation	R. Brosh, et al.	2008	19034270	Normal cell growth is governed by a complicated biological system, featuring multiple levels of control, often deregulated in cancers. The role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in the control of gene expression is now increasingly appreciated, yet their involvement in controlling cell proliferation is still not well understood. Here we investigated the mammalian cell proliferation control network consisting of transcriptional regulators, E2F and p53, their targets and a family of 15 miRNAs. Indicative of their significance, expression of these miRNAs is downregulated in senescent cells and in breast cancers harboring wild-type p53. These miRNAs are repressed by p53 in an E2F1-mediated manner. Furthermore, we show that these miRNAs silence antiproliferative genes, which themselves are E2F1 targets. Thus, miRNAs and transcriptional regulators appear to cooperate in the framework of a multi-gene transcriptional and post-transcriptional feed-forward loop. Finally, we show that, similarly to p53 inactivation, overexpression of representative miRNAs promotes proliferation and delays senescence, manifesting the detrimental phenotypic consequence of perturbations in this circuit. Taken together, these findings position miRNAs as novel key players in the mammalian cellular proliferation network.	Animals;Breast Neoplasms;Cell Aging;Cell Proliferation;E2F Transcription Factors/ physiology;E2F1 Transcription Factor;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Gene Regulatory Networks/ physiology;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Systems Biology;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ physiology
MicroRNAs relate to early worsening of renal function in patients with acute heart failure	N. Bruno, et al.	2016	26569364	BACKGROUND: Deregulation of microRNAs (miRNAs) may be involved in the pathogenesis of heart failure (HF) and renal disease. Our aim is to describe miRNA levels related to early worsening renal function in acute HF patients. METHOD AND RESULTS: We studied the association between 12 circulating miRNAs and Worsening Renal Function (WRF; defined as an increase in the serum creatinine level of 0.3mg per deciliter or more from admission to day 3), absolute change in creatinine and Neutrophil Gelatinase Associated Lipocalin (NGAL) from admission to day 3 in 98 patients hospitalized for acute HF. At baseline, circulating levels of all miRNAs were lower in patients with WRF, with statistically significant decreased levels of miR-199a-3p, miR-423-3p, and miR-let-7i-5p (p-value<0.05). The increase in creatinine during the first 3 days of hospitalization was significantly associated with lower levels of miR-199a-3p, miR-27a-3p, miR-652-3p, miR-423-5p, and miR-let-7i-5p, while the increase in NGAL was significantly associated with lower levels of miR-18a-5p, miR-106a-5p, miR-223-3p, miR-199a-3p and miR-423-3p. MiR-199a-3p was the strongest predictor of WRF, with an Odds Ratio of 1.48 (1.061-2.065; p-value=0.021) and a C-index of 0.701. CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that the levels of circulating miRNAs at hospital admission for acute HF were consistently lower in patients who developed worsening of renal function. MiR-199a-3p was the best predictor of WRF in these patients.	Acute Disease;Aged;Biomarkers/blood;Creatinine/ metabolism;Disease Progression;Diuretics/administration & dosage;Double-Blind Method;Early Diagnosis;Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay;Female;Follow-Up Studies;Gene Expression Regulation;Glomerular Filtration Rate/ physiology;Heart Failure/complications/drug therapy/ genetics;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Renal Insufficiency/diagnosis/ etiology/metabolism;Retrospective Studies;Xanthines/administration & dosage;Acute heart failure;Circulating microRNA;Worsening renal function
mir-24 activity propagates stress-induced senescence by down regulating DNA topoisomerase 1	H. Bu, et al.	2016	26748253	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a group of small non-coding executor RNAs. Their function as key modulators of cellular senescence has been widely recognized recently. By cross-comparing several human aging models we previously identified dozens of miRNAs being differentially regulated during aging. Here the functions of two miRNAs, mir-24 and mir-424, were investigated in an oxidative stress-induced fibroblast premature senescence model. Using pre-miRNA precursors, miRNAs were overexpressed in cells undergoing premature senescence induced by oxidative stress. More senescent cells were observed in mir-24 transfected cells. p53 was upregulated in mir-24 overexpressing cells, but downregulated in mir-424 overexpressing cells. DNA topoisomerase I (TOP1), an enzyme controlling DNA topology, was identified as a target of mir-24, whose expression was induced by oxidative stress. Knocking down TOP1 induced cellular senescence. These results suggest that mir-24 activity propagates stress-induced senescence by down regulating TOP1.	Cell Aging/ genetics/physiology;Cells, Cultured;DNA Topoisomerases, Type I/ biosynthesis/genetics;Down-Regulation/physiology;Fibroblasts/physiology;Gene Expression Regulation/physiology;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ physiology;Oxidative Stress/genetics/physiology;Transfection;Cellular senescence;Oxidative stress;Top1;miRNA;mir-24
Regulation of mitochondrial morphology and cell cycle by microRNA-214 targeting Mitofusin2	S. Bucha, et al.	2015	26307536	Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease caused by the increase in CAG repeats beyond 36 at the exon1 of the gene Huntingtin (HTT). Among the various dysfunctions of biological processes in HD, transcription deregulation due to abnormalities in actions of transcription factors has been considered to be one of the important pathological conditions. In addition, deregulation of microRNA (miRNA) expression has been described in HD. Earlier, expression of microRNA-214 (miR-214) has been shown to increase in HD cell models and target HTT gene; the expression of the later being inversely correlated to that of miR-214. In the present communication, we observed that the expressions of several HTT co-expressed genes are modulated by exogenous expression of miR-214 or by its mutant. Among several HTT co-expressed genes, MFN2 was shown to be the direct target of miR-214. Exogenous expression of miR-214, repressed the expression of MFN2, increased the distribution of fragmented mitochondria and altered the distribution of cells in different phases of cell cycle. In summary, we have shown that increased expression of miR-214 observed in HD cell model could target MFN2, altered mitochondrial morphology and deregulated cell cycle. Inhibition of miR-214 could be a possible target of intervention in HD pathogenesis.	3' Untranslated Regions;Animals;Cell Cycle/genetics;Cell Line;Down-Regulation;GTP Phosphohydrolases/ antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics;Gene Expression;Gene Regulatory Networks;Humans;Huntingtin Protein;Huntington Disease/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Mitochondria/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Mitochondrial Proteins/ antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics;Mutation;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics;Serotonin Plasma Membrane Transport Proteins/genetics;Cell cycle;Huntingtin;Huntington's disease;MicroRNA-214;Mitochondria;Mitofusin2
miR-96, miR-145 and miR-9 expression increases, and IGF-1R and FOXO1 expression decreases in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of aging humans	M. Budzinska, et al.	2016	27903254	BACKGROUND: In mammals, the IGF-1 pathway affects the phenotype of aging. Since the function of the immune system is modulated by IGF-1, it is plausible that immunosenescence might in part result from altered control by this pathway. We therefore examined whether the expression of IGF-1R, FOXO1, and FOXO3a in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) changes with age and if this might be due to changes in the expression of select miRNAs. METHODS: The expression of IGF-1R, FOXO1, FOXO3a, as well as of miR-9, miR-96, miR-99a, miR-132, miR-145, and miR-182 was examined in PBMC of young (27.8 +/- 3.7 years), elderly (65.6 +/- 3.4 years), and long-lived (94.0 +/- 3.7 years) Polish Caucasians using real-time PCR. mRNA/miRNA interactions were studied in HEK 293 cells using luciferase-expressing pmirGLO reporter vector. RESULTS: The median expression of IGF-1R decreased with age (p < 0.000001), as did the expression of FOXO1 (p < 0.000001), while the expression of FOXO3a remained stable. We also found an age-associated increase of the median expression of miR-96 (p = 0.002), miR-145 (p = 0.024) and miR-9 (p = 0.026), decrease of the expression of miR-99a (p = 0.037), and no changes regarding miR-132 and miR-182. Functional studies revealed that miR-96 and miR-182 interacted with human IGF-1R mRNA, and that miR-145 and miR-132 interacted with human FOXO1 mRNA. CONCLUSIONS: The age-associated higher expression of miR-96 and miR-145 might contribute to the lower expression of IGF-1R while the higher expression of miR-96, miR-145 and miR-9 might contribute to the lower expression of FOXO1 in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of aging humans. Sustained expression/function of FOXO3a but not of the other two genes might be important for the maintenance of the immune system function in these individuals.	Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ genetics/metabolism;DNA/genetics;Female;Forkhead Box Protein O1/biosynthesis/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Leukocytes, Mononuclear/cytology/metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;Middle Aged;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Receptors, Somatomedin/biosynthesis/ genetics;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Young Adult;Epigenetic drift;Forkhead box O1 transcription factor;Forkhead box O3a transcription factor;Insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor;Peripheral blood mononuclear cells;Successful aging;miRNA
A Specialized Mechanism of Translation Mediated by FXR1a-Associated MicroRNP in Cellular Quiescence	S. I. Bukhari, et al.	2016	26942679	MicroRNAs predominantly decrease gene expression; however, specific mRNAs are translationally upregulated in quiescent (G0) mammalian cells and immature Xenopus laevis oocytes by an FXR1a-associated microRNA-protein complex (microRNP) that lacks the microRNP repressor, GW182. Their mechanism in these conditions of decreased mTOR signaling, and therefore reduced canonical (cap-and-poly(A)-tail-mediated) translation, remains undiscovered. Our data reveal that mTOR inhibition in human THP1 cells enables microRNA-mediated activation. Activation requires shortened/no poly(A)-tail targets; polyadenylated mRNAs are partially activated upon PAIP2 overexpression, which interferes with poly(A)-bound PABP, precluding PABP-enhanced microRNA-mediated inhibition and canonical translation. Consistently, inhibition of PARN deadenylase prevents activation. P97/DAP5, a homolog of canonical translation factor, eIF4G, which lacks PABP- and cap binding complex-interacting domains, is required for activation, and thereby for the oocyte immature state. P97 interacts with 3' UTR-binding FXR1a-associated microRNPs and with PARN, which binds mRNA 5' caps, forming a specialized complex to translate recruited mRNAs in these altered canonical translation conditions.	3' Untranslated Regions;Animals;Argonaute Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Binding Sites;Cell Aging;Cell Line;Eukaryotic Initiation Factor-4G/genetics/metabolism;Exoribonucleases/genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Oocytes/ metabolism;Protein Biosynthesis;Proteomics/methods;RNA Caps/genetics/metabolism;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/genetics/ metabolism;RNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Repressor Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Ribonucleoproteins/genetics/ metabolism;Signal Transduction;TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases/genetics/metabolism;Transfection;Xenopus laevis
Age-Related Changes in MicroRNA Expression and Pharmacogenes in Human Liver	K. S. Burgess, et al.	2015	25968989	Developmental changes in the liver can significantly impact drug disposition. Due to the emergence of microRNAs (miRNAs) as important regulators of drug disposition gene expression, we studied age-dependent changes in miRNA expression. Expression of 533 miRNAs was measured in 90 human liver tissues (fetal, pediatric [1-17 years], and adult [28-80 years]; n = 30 each). In all, 114 miRNAs were upregulated and 72 were downregulated from fetal to pediatric, and 2 and 3, respectively, from pediatric to adult. Among the developmentally changing miRNAs, 99 miRNA-mRNA interactions were predicted or experimentally validated (e.g., hsa-miR-125b-5p-CYP1A1; hsa-miR-34a-5p-HNF4A). In human liver samples (n = 10 each), analyzed by RNA-sequencing, significant negative correlations were observed between the expression of >1,000 miRNAs and mRNAs of drug disposition and regulatory genes. Our data suggest a mechanism for the marked changes in hepatic gene expression between the fetal and pediatric developmental periods, and support a role for these age-dependent miRNAs in regulating drug disposition.	Adolescent;Adult;Age Factors;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ genetics/metabolism;Biotransformation/genetics;Child;Child, Preschool;Cluster Analysis;Computational Biology;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic;Humans;Infant;Liver/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;Pharmacogenetics
Profiles of extracellular miRNA in cerebrospinal fluid and serum from patients with Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases correlate with disease status and features of pathology	K. Burgos, et al.	2014	24797360	The discovery and reliable detection of markers for neurodegenerative diseases have been complicated by the inaccessibility of the diseased tissue--such as the inability to biopsy or test tissue from the central nervous system directly. RNAs originating from hard to access tissues, such as neurons within the brain and spinal cord, have the potential to get to the periphery where they can be detected non-invasively. The formation and extracellular release of microvesicles and RNA binding proteins have been found to carry RNA from cells of the central nervous system to the periphery and protect the RNA from degradation. Extracellular miRNAs detectable in peripheral circulation can provide information about cellular changes associated with human health and disease. In order to associate miRNA signals present in cell-free peripheral biofluids with neurodegenerative disease status of patients with Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, we assessed the miRNA content in cerebrospinal fluid and serum from postmortem subjects with full neuropathology evaluations. We profiled the miRNA content from 69 patients with Alzheimer's disease, 67 with Parkinson's disease and 78 neurologically normal controls using next generation small RNA sequencing (NGS). We report the average abundance of each detected miRNA in cerebrospinal fluid and in serum and describe 13 novel miRNAs that were identified. We correlated changes in miRNA expression with aspects of disease severity such as Braak stage, dementia status, plaque and tangle densities, and the presence and severity of Lewy body pathology. Many of the differentially expressed miRNAs detected in peripheral cell-free cerebrospinal fluid and serum were previously reported in the literature to be deregulated in brain tissue from patients with neurodegenerative disease. These data indicate that extracellular miRNAs detectable in the cerebrospinal fluid and serum are reflective of cell-based changes in pathology and can be used to assess disease progression and therapeutic efficacy.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/blood/cerebrospinal fluid/pathology/therapy;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/ cerebrospinal fluid;Parkinson Disease/blood/cerebrospinal fluid/pathology/therapy
Robust Distal Tip Cell Pathfinding in the Face of Temperature Stress Is Ensured by Two Conserved microRNAS in Caenorhabditis elegans	S. L. Burke, et al.	2015	26078280	Biological robustness, the ability of an organism to maintain a steady-state output as genetic or environmental inputs change, is critical for proper development. MicroRNAs have been implicated in biological robustness mechanisms through their post-transcriptional regulation of genes and gene networks. Previous research has illustrated examples of microRNAs promoting robustness as part of feedback loops and genetic switches and by buffering noisy gene expression resulting from environmental and/or internal changes. Here we show that the evolutionarily conserved microRNAs mir-34 and mir-83 (homolog of mammalian mir-29) contribute to the robust migration pattern of the distal tip cells in Caenorhabditis elegans by specifically protecting against stress from temperature changes. Furthermore, our results indicate that mir-34 and mir-83 may modulate the integrin signaling involved in distal tip cell migration by potentially targeting the GTPase cdc-42 and the beta-integrin pat-3. Our findings suggest a role for mir-34 and mir-83 in integrin-controlled cell migrations that may be conserved through higher organisms. They also provide yet another example of microRNA-based developmental robustness in response to a specific environmental stress, rapid temperature fluctuations.	Animals;Caenorhabditis elegans/ cytology/ genetics/physiology;Cell Movement/ genetics;Conserved Sequence;Fertility/genetics;Longevity/genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Mutation;Organ Specificity;Stress, Physiological/ genetics;Temperature;Time Factors;distal tip cell migrations;mir-29;mir-34;mir-83;robustness
C.57 C > T Mutation in MIR 184 is Responsible for Congenital Cataracts and Corneal Abnormalities in a Five-generation Family from Galicia, Spain	Y. Bykhovskaya, et al.	2015	24138095	A c.57 C > T mutation in the seed region of MIR184 located at the 15q25.1 chromosomal region has been independently associated with autosomal dominant keratoconus with early-onset anterior polar cataract in the Northern Irish family and with autosomal dominant EDICT (Endothelial Dystrophy, Iris hypoplasia, Congenital cataracts, and stromal Thinning) syndrome. In this study we report a five-generation family originating in Galicia, Spain with early onset cataracts and variable corneal abnormalities which include non-ectatic corneal thinning and severe early-onset keratoconus. We identified a heterozygous c.57 C > T mutation in miR-184 in the proband and two additional affected relatives on the maternal side. This finding represents a third independent occurrence of this mutation in familiar ocular disease thus strengthening the link between miR-184 abnormalities and inherited eye defects.	Aged, 80 and over;Cataract/congenital/ genetics;Child;Chromosomes, Human, Pair 15/genetics;Corneal Pachymetry;Corneal Stroma/ pathology;Corneal Topography;Female;Humans;Keratoconus/diagnosis/ genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Pedigree;Point Mutation;Polymerase Chain Reaction;Spain;Keratoconus;micro RNA;mutation
Effects of Codonopsis pilosula water extract on MicroRNA expression profile in D-galactose-induced senile mice	J. Cai, et al.	2017	28671103	This paper aims to observe and analyze effects of Codonopsis pilosula water extract on micro RNA (miRNA) expression profile in liver tissue of senile mice. The 110 Konminmice were randomly divided into five groups, including D-galactose-induced senile model group, normal control group, and low, middle and high dose intervention groups. Continuous modeling lasted 40 days. General symptoms and changes of body mass of the model mice were monitored and observed. The levels of serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase (ALT) and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) of mice were compared, and miRNA of differential expression during aging of D-galactose-induction and high-dose Codonopsis pilosula intervention was analyzed. The serum ALT and ALP levels in the aging model group were significantly higher than those in the normal control group (P<0.05). The serum ALT and ALP levels of Codonopsis pilosula intervention group were lower than those of aging model group, and decrease in ALP value of high dose intervention group was higher (P<0.05). The expression profile of miRNA in the aging model group was significantly different from that in normal control group and high-dose Codonopsis pilosula intervention group, and miRNA expression profile in high-dose Codonopsis pilosula intervention group was clustered with that in the normal control group. The differentially expressed miRNAs of D-galactose-induced senescence and Codonopsis pilosula anti-aging usually belong to 7 miRNA clusters. The target gene function of the differentially expressed miRNAs during senescence process was enriched in 29 signal pathways. There were 67 regulatory signal pathways in differentially expressed miRNA target genes during Codonopsis pilosula intervention. The effect of miRNA targeting may play an important role during D-galactose-induced senescence and Codonopsis pilosula anti-aging period.	
Rpph1 Upregulates CDC42 Expression and Promotes Hippocampal Neuron Dendritic Spine Formation by Competing with miR-330-5p	Y. Cai, et al.	2017	28223918	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a heterogeneous neurodegenerative disease. Recent studies employing microRNA-seq and genome-wide sequencing have identified some non-coding RNAs that are influentially involved in AD pathogenesis. Non-coding RNAs can compete with other endogenous RNAs by microRNA response elements (MREs) and manipulate biological processes, such as tumorigenesis. However, only a few non-coding RNAs have been reported in the pathogenesis of AD. In this study, we constructed the first competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network leveraging whole transcriptome sequencing and a previously studied microRNA-seq of APPswe/PS1DeltaE9 transgenic mice. The underlying mechanisms for the involvement of ceRNA in AD were validated using the Dual Luciferase Reporter Assay, detection of transcription levels by quantitative RT-PCR and translation levels by Western blotting, and morphological examination in primary cultured neurons. In the ceRNA network, four lncRNAs (C030034L19Rik, Rpph1, A830012C17Rik, and Gm15477) and five miRNAs (miR-182-5p, miR-330-5p, miR-326-3p, miR-132-3p, and miR-484) are enriched in nine pathways and an AD-related gene pool. Among them, Ribonuclease P RNA component H1 (Rpph1) is upregulated in the cortex of APPswe/PS1DeltaE9 mice compared to wild type controls. Rpph1 binds to miR326-3p/miR-330-5p and causes the release of their downstream target Cdc42, which leads to CDC42 upregulation. This effect was disrupted upon mutation of the MRE on Rpph1. Moreover, overexpression of Rpph1 increased dendritic spine density in primary cultured hippocampal pyramidal neurons, whereas knocking down of Rpph1 had the reverse effect. In conclusion, Rpph1 modulates CDC42 expression level in a ceRNA-dependent manner, which may represent a compensatory mechanism in the early stage of the AD pathogenesis.	Alzheimer's disease (AD);Cdc42;competing endogenous RNA (ceRNAs);miR-330-5p;ribonuclease P RNA component H1 (Rpph1);spine formation
Microglia change from a reactive to an age-like phenotype with the time in culture	C. Caldeira, et al.	2014	24917789	Age-related neurodegenerative diseases have been associated with chronic neuroinflammation and microglia activation. However, cumulative evidence supports that inflammation only occurs at an early stage once microglia change the endogenous characteristics with aging and switch to irresponsive/senescent and dystrophic phenotypes with disease progression. Thus, it will be important to have the means to assess the role of reactive and aged microglia when studying advanced brain neurodegeneration processes and age-associated related disorders. Yet, most studies are done with microglia from neonates since there are no adequate means to isolate degenerating microglia for experimentation. Indeed, only a few studies report microglia isolation from aged animals, using either short-term cultures or high concentrations of mitogens in the medium, which trigger microglia reactivity. The purpose of this study was to develop an experimental process to naturally age microglia after isolation from neonatal mice and to characterize the cultured cells at 2 days in vitro (DIV), 10 DIV, and 16 DIV. We found that 2 DIV (young) microglia had predominant amoeboid morphology and markers of stressed/reactive phenotype. In contrast, 16 DIV (aged) microglia evidenced ramified morphology and increased matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 activation, as well as reduced MMP-9, glutamate release and nuclear factor kappa-B activation, in parallel with decreased expression of Toll-like receptor (TLR)-2 and TLR-4, capacity to migrate and phagocytose. These findings together with the reduced expression of microRNA (miR)-124, and miR-155, decreased autophagy, enhanced senescence associated beta-galactosidase activity and elevated miR-146a expression, are suggestive that 16 DIV cells mainly correspond to irresponsive/senescent microglia. Data indicate that the model represent an opportunity to understand and control microglial aging, as well as to explore strategies to recover microglia surveillance function.	autophagic capacity;in vitro cell aging;microRNAs;microglia;migration;phagocytosis;reactivity;senescence
Integrative genetic, epigenetic and pathological analysis of paraganglioma reveals complex dysregulation of NOTCH signaling	A. Cama, et al.	2013	23955600	Head and neck paragangliomas, rare neoplasms of the paraganglia composed of nests of neurosecretory and glial cells embedded in vascular stroma, provide a remarkable example of organoid tumor architecture. To identify genes and pathways commonly deregulated in head and neck paraganglioma, we integrated high-density genome-wide copy number variation (CNV) analysis with microRNA and immunomorphological studies. Gene-centric CNV analysis of 24 cases identified a list of 104 genes most significantly targeted by tumor-associated alterations. The "NOTCH signaling pathway" was the most significantly enriched term in the list (P = 0.002 after Bonferroni or Benjamini correction). Expression of the relevant NOTCH pathway proteins in sustentacular (glial), chief (neuroendocrine) and endothelial cells was confirmed by immunohistochemistry in 47 head and neck paraganglioma cases. There were no relationships between level and pattern of NOTCH1/JAG2 protein expression and germline mutation status in the SDH genes, implicated in paraganglioma predisposition, or the presence/absence of immunostaining for SDHB, a surrogate marker of SDH mutations. Interestingly, NOTCH upregulation was observed also in cases with no evidence of CNVs at NOTCH signaling genes, suggesting altered epigenetic modulation of this pathway. To address this issue we performed microarray-based microRNA expression analyses. Notably 5 microRNAs (miR-200a,b,c and miR-34b,c), including those most downregulated in the tumors, correlated to NOTCH signaling and directly targeted NOTCH1 in in vitro experiments using SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. Furthermore, lentiviral transduction of miR-200s and miR-34s in patient-derived primary tympano-jugular paraganglioma cell cultures was associated with NOTCH1 downregulation and increased levels of markers of cell toxicity and cell death. Taken together, our results provide an integrated view of common molecular alterations associated with head and neck paraganglioma and reveal an essential role of NOTCH pathway deregulation in this tumor type.	Blotting, Western;Caspases/metabolism;Cell Death/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;DNA Mutational Analysis;Epigenesis, Genetic/ physiology;Fluorescent Antibody Technique;Head and Neck Neoplasms/ genetics/ pathology;Humans;Immunohistochemistry;Lentivirus/genetics;Microarray Analysis;Microscopy, Immunoelectron;Paraganglioma/ genetics/ pathology;Peripheral Nerves/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/biosynthesis/genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Receptors, Notch/ genetics/ physiology;Signal Transduction/ genetics/ physiology;Succinate Dehydrogenase/genetics;Transfection
MicroRNA in neurodegenerative drug discovery: the way forward?	K. Campbell and S. A. Booth	2015	25405898	Neurodegenerative diseases occur when neuronal cells in the brain or spinal cord progressively lose function and eventually die. Pathological analysis of these tissues reveals changes that include the loss of synapses, tangles of misfolded protein and immune cell activation, even during very early stages of disease well before debilitating clinical signs are apparent. This suggests that if neurodegeneration is treated early enough, drugs designed to delay the progress of these diseases by either repairing the early damage and loss of neurons, or protecting neuron functionality from further insult, may be efficacious. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that can post-transcriptionally regulate gene expression. They are particularly numerous within neurons where many are expressed with high specificity, which suggests that they have important roles in the healthy brain. Indeed, miRNAs are essential for the post-mitotic survival of neurons, implying a crucial role in survival and neuroprotection. This has focused attention on exploring the use of miRNA-based drugs as a means to correct cellular abnormalities and maintain neuronal function in neurodegenerative diseases. These efforts are spurred on by the rapid progress to clinical trials for a number of miRNA-based therapies for other diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, fibrosis and cancer.	Animals;Drug Discovery/methods/trends;Gene Silencing;Humans;MicroRNAs/administration & dosage/genetics;Neurodegenerative Diseases/ genetics/ therapy;microRNA;microRNA inhibitors;microRNA mimics;neurodegenerative disease
MicroRNAs and p63 in epithelial stemness	E. Candi, et al.	2015	25168241	MicroRNAs (miRs) are a class of small noncoding RNAs that suppress the expression of protein-coding genes by repressing protein translation. Although the roles that miRs and the miR processing machinery have in regulating epithelial stem cell biology are not fully understood, their fundamental contributions to these processes have been demonstrated over the last few years. The p53-family member p63 is an essential transcription factor for epidermal morphogenesis and homeostasis. p63 functions as a determinant for keratinocyte cell fate and helps to regulate the balance between stemness, differentiation and senescence. An important factor that regulates p63 function is the reciprocal interaction between p63 and miRs. Some miRs control p63 expression, and p63 regulates the miR expression profile in the epidermis. p63 controls miR expression at different levels. It directly regulates the transcription of several miRs and indirectly regulates their processing by regulating the expression of the miR processing components Dicer and DGCR8. In this review, we will discuss the recent findings on the miR-p63 interaction in epidermal biology, particularly focusing on the DeltaNp63-dependent regulation of DGCR8 recently described in the DeltaNp63(-/-) mouse. We provide a unified view of the current knowledge and discuss the apparent discrepancies and perspective therapeutic opportunities.	Animals;Cell Aging/physiology;Cell Differentiation/ physiology;Gene Expression Regulation/physiology;Humans;Keratinocytes/cytology/ metabolism;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Phosphoproteins/genetics/ metabolism;RNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Ribonuclease III/genetics/metabolism;Stem Cells/cytology/ metabolism;Trans-Activators/genetics/ metabolism;Transcription Factors/genetics/ metabolism;Tumor Suppressor Proteins/genetics/ metabolism
Mesenchymal progenitors aging highlights a miR-196 switch targeting HOXB7 as master regulator of proliferation and osteogenesis	O. Candini, et al.	2015	25428821	Human aging is associated with a decrease in tissue functions combined with a decline in stem cells frequency and activity followed by a loss of regenerative capacity. The molecular mechanisms behind this senescence remain largely obscure, precluding targeted approaches to counteract aging. Focusing on mesenchymal stromal/stem cells (MSC) as known adult progenitors, we identified a specific switch in miRNA expression during aging, revealing a miR-196a upregulation which was inversely correlated with MSC proliferation through HOXB7 targeting. A forced HOXB7 expression was associated with an improved cell growth, a reduction of senescence, and an improved osteogenesis linked to a dramatic increase of autocrine basic fibroblast growth factor secretion. These findings, along with the progressive decrease of HOXB7 levels observed during skeletal aging in mice, indicate HOXB7 as a master factor driving progenitors behavior lifetime, providing a better understanding of bone senescence and leading to an optimization of MSC performance.	Adult;Aged;Animals;Cell Differentiation/physiology;Cell Proliferation/physiology;Female;Homeodomain Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Humans;Male;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ cytology/metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Osteogenesis;Aging;Bone;Bone marrow stromal cells;Homeobox genes
Inhibition of Smurf2 translation by miR-322/503 modulates TGF-beta/Smad2 signaling and intestinal epithelial homeostasis	S. Cao, et al.	2014	24554769	Smad ubiquitin regulatory factor 2 (Smurf2) is an E3 ubiquitin ligase that regulates transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta)/Smad signaling and is implicated in a wide variety of cellular responses, but the exact mechanisms that control Smurf2 abundance are largely unknown. Here we identify microRNA-322 (miR-322) and miR-503 as novel factors that regulate Smurf2 expression posttranscriptionally. Both miR-322 and miR-503 interact with Smurf2 mRNA via its 3'-untranslated region (UTR) and repress Smurf2 translation but do not affect total Smurf2 mRNA levels. Studies using heterologous reporter constructs reveal a greater repressive effect of miR-322/503 through a single binding site in the Smurf2 3'-UTR, whereas point mutation of this site prevents miR-322/503-induced repression of Smurf2 translation. Increased levels of endogenous Smurf2 via antagonism of miR-322/503 inhibits TGF-beta-induced Smad2 activation by increasing degradation of phosphorylated Smad2. Furthermore, the increase in Smurf2 in intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) expressing lower levels of miR-322/503 is associated with increased resistance to apoptosis, which is abolished by Smurf2 silencing. These findings indicate that miR-322/503 represses Smurf2 translation, in turn affecting intestinal epithelial homeostasis by altering TGF-beta/Smad2 signaling and IEC apoptosis.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Cell Line;Cycloheximide/pharmacology;Intestinal Mucosa/metabolism;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics;Phosphorylation;Protein Biosynthesis/genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Rats;Signal Transduction;Smad2 Protein/ metabolism;Transforming Growth Factor beta/antagonists & inhibitors/ metabolism/pharmacology;Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases/ biosynthesis/genetics
Role of miR-34c in ketamine-induced neurotoxicity in neonatal mice hippocampus	S. E. Cao, et al.	2015	25052764	Ketamine is a commonly used pediatric anesthetic, but it might affect development, or even induce neurotoxicity in the neonatal brain. We have used an in vivo neonatal mouse model to induce ketamine-related neurotoxicity in the hippocampus, and found that miR-34c, a microRNA associated with pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, was significantly upregulated during ketamine-induced hippocampal neurodegeneration. Functional assay of silencing miR-34c demonstrated that downregulation of miR-34c activated PKC-ERK pathway, upregulated anti-apoptotic protein BCL2, and ameliorated ketamine-induced apoptosis in the hippocampus. Cognitive examination with the Morris water maze test showed that ketamine-induced memory impairment was significantly improved by miR-34c downregulation. Thus, miR-34c is important in regulating ketamine-induced neurotoxicity in hippocampus.	Animals;Animals, Newborn;Apoptosis/ drug effects;Down-Regulation/ drug effects;Extracellular Signal-Regulated MAP Kinases/metabolism;Hippocampus/ drug effects/metabolism;Ketamine/ toxicity;Maze Learning/drug effects;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/ metabolism;Oligonucleotides, Antisense/metabolism;Protein Kinase C/metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2/metabolism;Up-Regulation/drug effects;hippocampus;ketamine;miR-34c;neurotoxicity
MicroRNA biomarkers of Parkinson's disease in serum exosome-like microvesicles	X. Y. Cao, et al.	2017	28223160	Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive age-related debilitating motor disorder and the second most common neurodegenerative disease after Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we aimed to investigate the expression of 24 candidate miRNAs in PD and to assess their diagnostic value in patients with PD. We collected serum samples from 109 patients with PD and 40 age- and sex-matched healthy volunteers (control group). RNAs encapsulated in exosome-like microvesicles in serum were extracted and reverse transcribed. Serum miRNAs were analyzed by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), and the ability of the miRNAs to accurately discriminate PD was analyzed by receiver operating characteristic curves. Based on our analysis, we further validated the downregulation of miR-19b and the upregulation of miR-195 and miR-24 in patients with PD. When compared with the control group, the area under the curve (AUC) values for miR-19b, miR-24, and miR-195 were 0.753, 0.908, and 0.697, respectively. Therefore, analysis of the expression levels of miR-19b, miR-24, and miR-195 in serum may be useful for the diagnosis of PD.	Parkinson's disease;Serum-based biomarker;microRNA-195;microRNA-19b;microRNA-24
Oasis: online analysis of small RNA deep sequencing data	V. Capece, et al.	2015	25701573	UNLABELLED: Oasis is a web application that allows for the fast and flexible online analysis of small-RNA-seq (sRNA-seq) data. It was designed for the end user in the lab, providing an easy-to-use web frontend including video tutorials, demo data and best practice step-by-step guidelines on how to analyze sRNA-seq data. Oasis' exclusive selling points are a differential expression module that allows for the multivariate analysis of samples, a classification module for robust biomarker detection and an advanced programming interface that supports the batch submission of jobs. Both modules include the analysis of novel miRNAs, miRNA targets and functional analyses including GO and pathway enrichment. Oasis generates downloadable interactive web reports for easy visualization, exploration and analysis of data on a local system. Finally, Oasis' modular workflow enables for the rapid (re-) analysis of data. AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: Oasis is implemented in Python, R, Java, PHP, C++ and JavaScript. It is freely available at http://oasis.dzne.de. CONTACT: stefan.bonn@dzne.de SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics online.	Computational Biology/ methods;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing/ methods;Humans;Internet;MicroRNAs/ analysis/genetics;Online Systems;Sequence Analysis, RNA/ methods;Software
Identification of miR-31-5p, miR-141-3p, miR-200c-3p, and GLT1 as human liver aging markers sensitive to donor-recipient age-mismatch in transplants	M. Capri, et al.	2017	27995756	To understand why livers from aged donors are successfully used for transplants, we looked for markers of liver aging in 71 biopsies from donors aged 12-92 years before transplants and in 11 biopsies after transplants with high donor-recipient age-mismatch. We also assessed liver function in 36 age-mismatched recipients. The major findings were the following: (i) miR-31-5p, miR-141-3p, and miR-200c-3p increased with age, as assessed by microRNAs (miRs) and mRNA transcript profiling in 12 biopsies and results were validated by RT-qPCR in a total of 58 biopsies; (ii) telomere length measured by qPCR in 45 samples showed a significant age-dependent shortage; (iii) a bioinformatic approach combining transcriptome and miRs data identified putative miRs targets, the most informative being GLT1, a glutamate transporter expressed in hepatocytes. GLT1 was demonstrated by luciferase assay to be a target of miR-31-5p and miR-200c-3p, and both its mRNA (RT-qPCR) and protein (immunohistochemistry) significantly decreased with age in liver biopsies and in hepatic centrilobular zone, respectively; (iv) miR-31-5p, miR-141-3p and miR-200c-3p expression was significantly affected by recipient age (older environment) as assessed in eleven cases of donor-recipient extreme age-mismatch; (v) the analysis of recipients plasma by N-glycans profiling, capable of assessing liver functions and biological age, showed that liver function recovered after transplants, independently of age-mismatch, and recipients apparently 'rejuvenated' according to their glycomic age. In conclusion, we identified new markers of aging in human liver, their relevance in donor-recipient age-mismatches in transplantation, and offered positive evidence for the use of organs from old donors.	Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ genetics;Biomarkers/blood;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Glutamate Plasma Membrane Transport Proteins/ metabolism;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Immunohistochemistry;Liver/ metabolism;Liver Transplantation;Luciferases/metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Middle Aged;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Reproducibility of Results;Telomere/metabolism;Tissue Donors;Transcriptional Elongation Factors/genetics/metabolism;Young Adult;Glt1;N-glycans;age-mismatches;allograft;elderly donors;microRNAs;telomere length
Regulatory Roles of miRNAs in Aging	X. M. Caravia and C. Lopez-Otin	2015	26662993	Aging is a biological process characterized by the progressive deterioration of physiological functions that occurs through the accumulation of macromolecular and cellular damage. This phenomenon impairs tissue function and is a risk factor for many disorders including cardiovascular disease, neurodegenerative disorders, and cancer. A recent study has enumerated nine cellular and molecular hallmarks that represent common denominators of aging and together determine the aging phenotype, highlighting the concept of aging plasticity. Among the multiple molecular mechanisms which may contribute to aging modulation, microRNAs (miRNAs) are raising enormous interest due to their ability to affect all the "Hallmarks of Aging." In this chapter, we will focus on the description of the diverse functional roles of geromiRs, the large and growing subgroup of miRNAs implicated in aging. We will also address the molecular mechanisms underlying miRNA function in aging and discuss potential strategies for managing aging and extending longevity based on geromiR modulation.	Aging;Animals;Cell Aging;Epigenesis, Genetic;Gene Expression Regulation;Genomic Instability;Humans;Longevity;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Mitochondria/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Stem Cells/cytology/metabolism;Life-span;Senescence;geromiRs
Oxidative Stress-Induced miR-200c Disrupts the Regulatory Loop Among SIRT1, FOXO1, and eNOS	F. Carlomosti, et al.	2017	27960536	AIMS: Reactive oxygen species (ROS) play a pivotal role in different pathologic conditions, including ischemia, diabetes, and aging. We previously showed that ROS enhance miR-200c expression, causing endothelial cell (EC) apoptosis and senescence. Herein, we dissect the interaction among miR-200c and three strictly related proteins that modulate EC function and ROS production: sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), and forkhead box O1 (FOXO1). Moreover, the role of miR-200c on ROS modulation was also investigated. RESULTS: We demonstrated that miR-200c directly targets SIRT1, eNOS, and FOXO1; via this mechanism, miR-200c decreased NO and increased the acetylation of SIRT1 targets, that is, FOXO1 and p53. FOXO1 acetylation inhibited its transcriptional activity on target genes, that is, SIRT1 and the ROS scavengers, catalase and manganese superoxide dismutase. In keeping, miR-200c increased ROS production and induced p66Shc protein phosphorylation in Ser-36; this mechanism upregulated ROS and inhibited FOXO1 transcription, reinforcing this molecular circuitry. These in vitro results were validated in three in vivo models of oxidative stress, that is, human skin fibroblasts from old donors, femoral arteries from old mice, and a murine model of hindlimb ischemia. In all cases, miR-200c was higher versus control and its targets, that is, SIRT1, eNOS, and FOXO1, were downmodulated. In the mouse hindlimb ischemia model, anti-miR-200c treatment rescued these targets and improved limb perfusion. Innovation and Conclusion: miR-200c disrupts SIRT1/FOXO1/eNOS regulatory loop. This event promotes ROS production and decreases NO, contributing to endothelial dysfunction under conditions of increased oxidative stress such as aging and ischemia. Antioxid. Redox Signal. 00, 000-000.	aging;free radicals;microRNA;nitric oxide;vascular
Unravelling Endogenous MicroRNA System Dysfunction as a New Pathophysiological Mechanism in Machado-Joseph Disease	V. Carmona, et al.	2017	28236575	Machado-Joseph disease (MJD) is a genetic neurodegenerative disease caused by an expanded polyglutamine tract within the protein ataxin-3 (ATXN3). Despite current efforts, MJD's mechanism of pathogenesis remains unclear and no disease-modifying treatment is available. Therefore, in this study, we investigated (1) the role of the 3' UTR of ATXN3, a putative microRNA (miRNA) target, (2) whether miRNA biogenesis and machinery are dysfunctional in MJD, and (3) which specific miRNAs target ATXN3-3' UTR and whether they can alleviate MJD neuropathology in vivo. Our results demonstrate that endogenous miRNAs, by targeting sequences in the 3' UTR, robustly reduce ATXN3 expression and aggregation in vitro and neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation in vivo. Importantly, we found an abnormal MJD-associated downregulation of genes involved in miRNA biogenesis and silencing activity. Finally, we identified three miRNAs-mir-9, mir-181a, and mir-494-that interact with the ATXN3-3' UTR and whose expression is dysregulated in human MJD neurons and in other MJD cell and animal models. Furthermore, overexpression of these miRNAs in mice resulted in reduction of mutATXN3 levels, aggregate counts, and neuronal dysfunction. Altogether, these findings indicate that endogenous miRNAs and the 3' UTR of ATXN3 play a crucial role in MJD pathogenesis and provide a promising opportunity for MJD treatment.	3' Untranslated Regions;Animals;Ataxin-3/genetics;Cell Line;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Order;Genes, Reporter;Genetic Vectors/genetics;Humans;Lentivirus/genetics;Machado-Joseph Disease/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Mutation;Neurons/metabolism;Protein Aggregation, Pathological;RNA Interference;RNA Stability;3';Machado-Joseph disease;Sca3;Utr;gene therapy;lentivirus;mechanism of disease;microRNA;microRNA machinery dysregulation
The cochaperone BAG2 sweeps paired helical filament- insoluble tau from the microtubule	D. C. Carrettiero, et al.	2009	19228967	Tau inclusions are a prominent feature of many neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease. Their accumulation in neurons as ubiquitinated filaments suggests a failure in the degradation limb of the Tau pathway. The components of a Tau protein triage system consisting of CHIP/Hsp70 and other chaperones have begun to emerge. However, the site of triage and the master regulatory elements are unknown. Here, we report an elegant mechanism of Tau degradation involving the cochaperone BAG2. The BAG2/Hsp70 complex is tethered to the microtubule and this complex can capture and deliver Tau to the proteasome for ubiquitin-independent degradation. This complex preferentially degrades Sarkosyl insoluble Tau and phosphorylated Tau. BAG2 levels in cells are under the physiological control of the microRNA miR-128a, which can tune paired helical filament Tau levels in neurons. Thus, we propose that ubiquitinated Tau inclusions arise due to shunting of Tau degradation toward a less efficient ubiquitin-dependent pathway.	Alzheimer Disease/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Animals;Brain/ metabolism/ultrastructure;COS Cells;Cercopithecus aethiops;HSP70 Heat-Shock Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Humans;Inclusion Bodies/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Macromolecular Substances/metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics;Microtubules/ metabolism/ultrastructure;Molecular Chaperones;Neurons/ metabolism/ultrastructure;Proteasome Endopeptidase Complex/metabolism;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Ubiquitination/genetics;tau Proteins/genetics/ metabolism
Ageing: MicroRNA tunes ageing pathway in flies	T. Casci	2012	22371196		
Alteration of cardiac progenitor cell potency in GRMD dogs	M. Cassano, et al.	2012	22513051	Among the animal models of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), the Golden Retriever muscular dystrophy (GRMD) dog is considered the best model in terms of size and pathological onset of the disease. As in human patients presenting with DMD or Becker muscular dystrophies (BMD), the GRMD is related to a spontaneous X-linked mutation of dystrophin and is characterized by myocardial lesions. In this respect, GRMD is a useful model to explore cardiac pathogenesis and for the development of therapeutic protocols. To investigate whether cardiac progenitor cells (CPCs) isolated from healthy and GRMD dogs may differentiate into myocardial cell types and to test the feasibility of cell therapy for cardiomyopathies in a preclinical model of DMD, CPCs were isolated from cardiac biopsies of healthy and GRMD dogs. Gene profile analysis revealed an active cardiac transcription network in both healthy and GRMD CPCs. However, GRMD CPCs showed impaired self-renewal and cardiac differentiation. Population doubling and telomerase analyses highlighted earlier senescence and proliferation impairment in progenitors isolated from GRMD cardiac biopsies. Immunofluorescence analysis revealed that only wt CPCs showed efficient although not terminal cardiac differentiation, consistent with the upregulation of cardiac-specific proteins and microRNAs. Thus, the pathological condition adversely influences the cardiomyogenic differentiation potential of cardiac progenitors. Using PiggyBac transposon technology we marked CPCs for nuclear dsRed expression, providing a stable nonviral gene marking method for in vivo tracing of CPCs. Xenotransplantation experiments in neonatal immunodeficient mice revealed a valuable contribution of CPCs to cardiomyogenesis with homing differences between wt and dystrophic progenitors. These results suggest that cardiac degeneration in dystrophinopathies may account for the progressive exhaustion of local cardiac progenitors and shed light on cardiac stemness in physiological and pathological conditions. Furthermore, we provide essential information that canine CPCs may be used to alleviate cardiac involvement in a large preclinical model of DMD.	Animals;Cell Differentiation/physiology;Cell Lineage;Disease Models, Animal;Dogs;Female;Flow Cytometry;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, SCID;Muscular Dystrophy, Animal/genetics/metabolism/ pathology;Myocardium/ cytology/metabolism/ pathology;Rats;Stem Cells/metabolism/ pathology;Transcriptome
The senescent microenvironment promotes the emergence of heterogeneous cancer stem-like cells	L. J. Castro-Vega, et al.	2015	26168819	There is a well-established association between aging and the onset of metastasis. Although the mechanisms through which age impinges upon the malignant phenotype remain uncharacterized, the role of a senescent microenvironment has been emphasized. We reported previously that human epithelial cells that undergo telomere-driven chromosome instability (T-CIN) display global microRNA (miR) deregulation and develop migration and invasion capacities. Here, we show that post-crisis cells are not able to form tumors unless a senescent microenvironment is provided. The characterization of cell lines established from such tumors revealed that these cells have acquired cell autonomous tumorigenicity, giving rise to heterogeneous tumors. Further experiments demonstrate that explanted cells, while displaying differences in cell differentiation markers, are all endowed of enhanced stem cell properties including self-renewal and multilineage differentiation capacity. Treatments of T-CIN+ cells with senescence-conditioned media induce sphere formation exclusively in cells with senescence-associated tumorigenicity, a capacity that depends on miR-145 repression. These results indicate that the senescent microenvironment, while promoting further transdifferentiations in cells with genome instability, is able to propel the progression of premalignant cells towards a malignant, cell stem-like state.	Aging/ genetics/pathology;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Differentiation/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Movement/genetics;Cell Proliferation/genetics;Cell Transformation, Neoplastic/ genetics;Chromosomal Instability/genetics;Epithelial Cells/metabolism/pathology;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Neoplasm Invasiveness/genetics;Neoplasm Metastasis;Neoplastic Stem Cells/ pathology;Telomere/genetics;Tumor Microenvironment/ genetics
microRNAs derived from circulating exosomes as noninvasive biomarkers for screening and diagnosing lung cancer	R. Cazzoli, et al.	2013	23945385	INTRODUCTION: Lung cancer is the highest cause of mortality among tumor pathologies worldwide. There are no validated techniques for an early detection of pulmonary cancer lesions other than low-dose helical computed tomography scan. Unfortunately, this method has some negative effects. Recent studies have laid the basis for development of exosomes-based techniques to screen/diagnose lung cancers. As the isolation of circulating exosomes is a minimally invasive procedure, this technique opens new possibilities for diagnostic applications. METHODS: We used a first set of 30 plasma samples from as many patients, including 10 patients affected by lung adenocarcinomas, 10 with lung granulomas, and 10 healthy smokers matched for age and sex as negative controls. Wide-range microRNAs analysis (742 microRNAs) was performed by quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction. Data were compared on the basis of lesion characteristics, using WEKA software for statistics and modeling. Subsequently, selected microRNAs were evaluated on an independent larger group of samples (105 specimens: 50 lung adenocarcinomas, 30 lung granulomas, and 25 healthy smokers). RESULTS: This analysis led to the selection of four microRNAs to perform a screening test (miR-378a, miR-379, miR-139-5p, and miR-200b-5p), useful to divide population into two groups: nodule (lung adenocarcinomas + carcinomas) and non-nodule (healthy former smokers). Six microRNAs (miR-151a-5p, miR-30a-3p, miR-200b-5p, miR-629, miR-100, and miR-154-3p) were selected for a second test on the nodule population to discriminate between lung adenocarcinoma and granuloma. CONCLUSIONS: The screening test showed 97.5% sensitivity, 72.0% specificity, and area under the curve receiver operating characteristic of 90.8%. The diagnostic test had 96.0% sensitivity, 60.0% specificity, and area under the curve receiver operating characteristic of 76.0%. Further evaluation is needed to confirm the predictive power of these models on larger cohorts of samples.	Adenocarcinoma/blood/ diagnosis/genetics;Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Biomarkers, Tumor/ genetics;Case-Control Studies;Early Detection of Cancer;Exosomes/ genetics;Female;Follow-Up Studies;Granuloma/blood/ diagnosis/genetics;Humans;Lung Neoplasms/blood/ diagnosis/genetics;Male;Mass Screening;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Neoplasm Staging;Prognosis;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Survival Rate
Editorial for "Regulatory RNAs in the nervous system"	A. Cellerino, et al.	2015	25713514		aging;microRNA;neuronal development;neuronal plasticity;non-coding RNA
Altered miRNA expression profiles are involved in the protective effects of troxerutin against ultraviolet B radiation in normal human dermal fibroblasts	H. J. Cha, et al.	2014	24504083	The aim of this study was to investigate the mechanisms by which troxerutin protects cells against ultraviolet B (UVB) radiation. First, we demonstrate that pre-treatment with troxerutin protects normal human dermal fibroblasts (nHDFs) against UVB-induced cytotoxicity. As shown by migration assay and DNA repair analysis, troxerutin increased cell migration and DNA repair activity in the nHDFs. Subsequently, we analyzed microRNA (miRNA) expression profiles in the nHDFs. miRNAs are 19- to 24-nucleotide (nt) non-coding RNA molecules that regulate the translation of target genes through RNA interference. In UVB-exposed cells, miRNAs act on crucial functions, such as apoptosis and cellular senescence. miRNA expression is significantly altered during the protective process induced by phytochemicals. Therefore, understanding changes that occur in miRNA expression profiles may help to elucidate the protective mechanisms of troxerutin. We identified 11 miRNAs that were significantly (>2-fold) upregulated and 12 that were significantly downregulated (>2-fold) following treatment of the nHDFs with troxerutin. In addition, we investigated the biological functions of these miRNAs through the prediction of miRNA targets and Gene Ontology analysis of the putative targets. Overall, our findings indicate that pre-treatment with troxerutin increases the viability of UVB-exposed nHDFs through the alteration of the miRNA expression profiles.	Cell Death/drug effects/radiation effects;Cell Movement/drug effects/genetics/radiation effects;Cytoprotection/drug effects/ genetics/radiation effects;DNA Repair/drug effects/genetics/radiation effects;Dermis/ cytology;Down-Regulation/drug effects/genetics/radiation effects;Fibroblasts/ cytology/drug effects/metabolism/radiation effects;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Ontology;Humans;Hydroxyethylrutoside/ analogs & derivatives/pharmacology;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Protective Agents/pharmacology;Ultraviolet Rays;Up-Regulation/drug effects/genetics/radiation effects
Contributions of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) on cerebral neurobiology: an integrated omics approach with epigenomic focus	N. Chakraborty, et al.	2017	28152499	The epigenetic landscape is vulnerable to diets. Here, we investigated the influence of different polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) dietary supplements on rodents' nervous system development and functions and potential consequences to neurodegenerative disorders. Our previous nutrigenomics study showed significant impact of high n-3 PUFA-enriched diet (ERD) on synaptogenesis and various neuromodulators. The present study introduced a second equicaloric diet with n-6 PUFA balanced by n-3 PUFA (BLD). The typical lab diet with high n-6 PUFA was the baseline. Transcriptomic and epigenetic investigations, namely microRNA (miRNA) and DNA methylation assays, were carried out on the hemibrains of the C57BL/6j mice fed on any of these three diets from their neonatal age to midlife. Integrating the multiomics data, we focused on the genes encoding both hypermethylated CpG islands and suppressed transcripts. In addition, miRNA:mRNA pairs were screened to identify those overexpressed miRNAs that reduced transcriptional expressions. The majority of miRNAs overexpressed by BLD are associated with Alzheimer's and schizophrenia. BLD implicated long-term potentiation, memory, cognition and learning, primarily via hypermethylation of those genes that enrich the calcium-releasing neurotransmitters. ERD caused hypermethylation of those genes that enrich cytoskeletal development networks and promote the formation of neuronal precursors. We drew the present observations in light of our limited knowledge regarding the epigenetic influences on biofunctions. A more comprehensive study is essential to understand the broad influences of dietary supplements and to suggest optimal dietary solutions for neurological disorders.	
MicroRNA signature of inflamed lymphatic endothelium and role of miR-9 in lymphangiogenesis and inflammation	S. Chakraborty, et al.	2015	26354749	The lymphatics have emerged as critical players in the progression and resolution of inflammation. The goal of this study was to identify specific microRNAs (miRNAs) that regulate lymphatic inflammatory processes. Rat mesenteric lymphatic endothelial cells (LECs) were exposed to the proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha for 2, 24, and 96 h, and miRNA profiling was carried out by real-time PCR arrays. Our data demonstrate a specific set of miRNAs that are differentially expressed (>1.8-fold and/or P < 0.05) in LECs in response to tumor necrosis factor-alpha and are involved in inflammation, angiogenesis, endothelial-mesenchymal transition, and cell proliferation and senescence. We further characterized the expression of miRNA 9 (miR-9) that was induced in LECs and in inflamed rat mesenteric lymphatics. Our results showed that miR-9 overexpression significantly repressed NF-kappaB expression and, thereby, suppressed inflammation but promoted LEC tube formation, as well as expression of the prolymphangiogenic molecules endothelial nitric oxide synthase and VEGF receptor type 3. LEC viability and proliferation and endothelial-mesenchymal transition were also significantly induced by miR-9. This study provides the first evidence of a distinct profile of miRNAs associated with LECs during inflammation. It also identifies the critical dual role of miR-9 in fine-tuning the balance between lymphatic inflammatory and lymphangiogenic pathways.	Animals;Cells, Cultured;Cytokines/genetics/metabolism;Endothelial Cells/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Inflammation/ metabolism;Lymphangiogenesis/genetics/ physiology;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Time Factors;inflammation;lymphangiogenesis;lymphatic endothelial cell;microRNA;signaling
The Path to microRNA Therapeutics in Psychiatric and Neurodegenerative Disorders	A. W. Chan and J. Kocerha	2012	22629284	The microRNA (miRNA) class of non-coding RNAs exhibit a diverse range of regulatory roles in neuronal functions that are conserved from lower vertebrates to primates. Disruption of miRNA expression has compellingly been linked to pathogenesis in neuropsychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders, such as schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease, and autism. The list of transcript targets governed by a single miRNA provide a molecular paradigm applicable for therapeutic intervention. Indeed, reports have shown that specific manipulation of a miRNA in cell or animal models can significantly alter phenotypes linked with neurological disease. Here, we review how a diverse range of biological systems, including Drosophila, rodents, and primates such as monkeys and humans, can be integrated into the translation of miRNAs as novel clinical targets.	microRNAs;monkeys;neurodegeneration;non-coding RNA;primates;psychiatric;schizophrenia;therapeutics
Network Topology Analysis of Post-Mortem Brain Microarrays Identifies More Alzheimer's Related Genes and MicroRNAs and Points to Novel Routes for Fighting with the Disease	S. Chandrasekaran and D. Bonchev	2016	26784894	Network-based approaches are powerful and beneficial tools to study complex systems in their entirety, elucidating the essential factors that turn the multitude of individual elements into a functional system. In this study we used critical network topology descriptors and guilt-by-association rule to explore and understand the significant molecular players, drug targets and underlying biological mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease. Analyzing two post-mortem brain gene microarrays (GSE4757 and GSE28146) with Pathway Studio software package we constructed and analyzed a set of protein-protein interaction, as well as miRNA-target networks. In a 4-step procedure the expression datasets were normalized using Robust Multi-array Average approach, while the modulation of gene expression by the disease was statistically evaluated by the empirical Bayes method from the limma Bioconductor package. Representative set of 214 seed-genes (p<0.01) common for the three brain sections of the two microarrays was thus created. The Pathway Studio analysis of the networks built identified 15 new potential AD-related genes and 17 novel AD-involved microRNAs. Using KEGG pathways relevant in Alzheimer's disease we built an integrated mechanistic network from the interactions between the overlapping genes in these pathways. Routes of possible disease initiation process were thus revealed through the CD4, DCN, and IL8 extracellular ligands. DAVID and IPA enrichment analysis uncovered a number of deregulated biological processes and pathways including neuron projection/differentiation, aging, oxidative stress, chemokine/ neurotrophin signaling, long-term potentiation and others. The findings in this study offer information of interest for subsequent experimental studies.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics;Autopsy;Brain/ metabolism/pathology;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Regulatory Networks;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics
microRNA-9 attenuates amyloidbeta-induced synaptotoxicity by targeting calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase kinase 2	F. Chang, et al.	2014	24603903	The calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase kinase 2, adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (CAMKK2-AMPK) pathway mediated amyloid beta42 (Abeta42)-induced synaptotoxicity and blockage of CAMKK2-protected neurons against the effect of Abeta42. Numerous microRNAs (miRNAs) were downregulated in response to Abeta42, including miR-9, a synapse-enriched miRNA that is decreased in Alzheimer's disease. In the present study the effect of miR-9 on Abeta42triggered CAMKK2-AMPK activation and the synaptotoxic impairment was investigated. Abeta42 oligomers were identified to be capable of inducing CAMKK2-AMPK pathway activation, which was attenuated by miR-9 overexpression. CAMKK2 was predicted to be a target of miR-9 using Pictar and Targetscan 6.2 Bioinformatics' algorithms. A luciferase activity assay and western blot analysis confirmed that miR-9 significantly inhibited CAMKK2 expression. Additionally, overexpression of miR-9 was sufficient to restore Abeta42-induced dendritic spine loss and rescued Abeta42-induced tau phosphorylation at Ser-262 mediated by the CAMKK2-AMPK pathway. The results of the present study demonstrated that miR-9 attenuated Abeta-induced synaptotoxicity by targeting CAMKK2.	AMP-Activated Protein Kinases/metabolism;Alzheimer Disease/genetics/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ metabolism;Animals;Calcium-Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase Kinase/ genetics/ metabolism;Cell Line;Enzyme Activation;Gene Expression;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neurons/metabolism;Phosphorylation;Protein Biosynthesis;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Synapses/ genetics/ metabolism
HIV-1 Tat protein promotes neuronal dysfunction through disruption of microRNAs	J. R. Chang, et al.	2011	21956116	Over the last decade, small noncoding RNA molecules such as microRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as critical regulators in the expression and function of eukaryotic genomes. It has been suggested that viral infections and neurological disease outcome may also be shaped by the influence of small RNAs. This has prompted us to suggest that HIV infection alters the endogenous miRNA expression patterns, thereby contributing to neuronal deregulation and AIDS dementia. Therefore, using primary cultures and neuronal cell lines, we examined the impact of a viral protein (HIV-1 Tat) on the expression of miRNAs due to its characteristic features such as release from the infected cells and taken up by noninfected cells. Using microRNA array assay, we demonstrated that Tat deregulates the levels of several miRNAs. Interestingly, miR-34a was among the most highly induced miRNAs in Tat-treated neurons. Tat also decreases the levels of miR-34a target genes such as CREB protein as shown by real time PCR. The effect of Tat was neutralized in the presence of anti-miR-34a. Using in situ hybridization assay, we found that the levels of miR-34a increase in Tat transgenic mice when compared with the parental mice. Therefore, we conclude that deregulation of neuronal functions by HIV-1 Tat protein is miRNA-dependent.	Animals;Brain/drug effects/metabolism/virology;Calcium/metabolism;Cell Line, Tumor;Gene Expression Profiling;HIV Core Protein p24/metabolism;HIV-1/physiology;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neurons/ drug effects/ metabolism/pathology/virology;Reproducibility of Results;tat Gene Products, Human Immunodeficiency Virus/metabolism/ pharmacology
Differential miRNA Expression in Cells and Matrix Vesicles in Vascular Smooth Muscle Cells from Rats with Kidney Disease	P. Chaturvedi, et al.	2015	26115487	Vascular calcification is a complex process and has been associated with aging, diabetes, chronic kidney disease (CKD). Although there have been several studies that examine the role of miRNAs (miRs) in bone osteogenesis, little is known about the role of miRs in vascular calcification and their role in the pathogenesis of vascular abnormalities. Matrix vesicles (MV) are known to play in important role in initiating vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) calcification. In the present study, we performed miRNA microarray analysis to identify the dysregulated miRs between MV and VSMC derived from CKD rats to understand the role of post-transcriptional regulatory networks governed by these miRNAs in vascular calcification and to uncover the differential miRNA content of MV. The percentage of miRNA to total RNA was increased in MV compared to VSMC. Comparison of expression profiles of miRNA by microarray demonstrated 33 miRs to be differentially expressed with the majority (~ 57%) of them down-regulated. Target genes controlled by differentially expressed miRNAs were identified utilizing two different complementary computational approaches Miranda and Targetscan to understand the functions and pathways that may be affected due to the production of MV from calcifying VSMC thereby contributing to the regulation of genes by miRs. We found several processes including vascular smooth muscle contraction, response to hypoxia and regulation of muscle cell differentiation to be enriched. Signaling pathways identified included MAP-kinase and wnt signaling that have previously been shown to be important in vascular calcification. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that miRs are concentrated in MV from calcifying VSMC, and that important functions and pathways are affected by the miRs dysregulation between calcifying VSMC and the MV they produce. This suggests that miRs may play a very important regulatory role in vascular calcification in CKD by controlling an extensive network of post-transcriptional targets.	Animals;Cells, Cultured;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Regulatory Networks;Glomerular Mesangium/ metabolism/pathology;MicroRNAs/analysis/ genetics;Microarray Analysis;Muscle, Smooth, Vascular/ metabolism/pathology;Myocytes, Smooth Muscle/ metabolism/pathology;Rats;Rats, Inbred Strains;Renal Insufficiency, Chronic/ genetics/pathology;Vascular Calcification/ genetics/metabolism
Up-regulation of microRNA-142 in simian immunodeficiency virus encephalitis leads to repression of sirtuin1	A. D. Chaudhuri, et al.	2013	23752207	MicroRNA (miR)-142 is up-regulated in the brain in HIV and SIV encephalitis (SIVE). We identified the cell types where miR-142 is up-regulated and its relevant downstream target. Fluorescent in situ hybridization combined with immunofluorescent labeling revealed that miR-142-3p and -5p are expressed within hippocampal neurons and myeloid cells in SIVE. Sirtuin1 (SIRT1) was predicted as a potential miR-142 target by analysis of its 3'-UTR and bioinformatic analysis of factors linked to altered hippocampal gene expression profile in SIVE. Overexpression of pre-miR-142 in HEK293T cells led to a 3.7-fold decrease in SIRT1 protein level. Examination of the individual effects of miR-142-5p and miR-142-3p through overexpression and inhibition studies revealed that significant effects on SIRT1 occurred only with miR-142-5p. Luciferase reporter assays revealed a 2.3-fold inhibition of expression due to interaction of miR-142 with the SIRT1 3'-UTR, mutation analysis revealed that only the miR-142-5p target site was active. MiR-142 expression in primary human neurons led to a small (1.3-fold) but significant decrease in SIRT1 protein level. Furthermore, qRT-PCR revealed up-regulation of miR-142-3p (6.4-fold) and -5p (3.9-fold) and down-regulation of SIRT1 (33-fold) in macrophages/microglia from animals with SIVE. We have therefore elucidated a miR-mediated mechanism of regulation of SIRT1 expression in SIVE.	Animals;Blotting, Western;Cell Line;Cells, Cultured;Encephalitis/ genetics/ virology;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Simian Immunodeficiency Virus/ pathogenicity;Sirtuin 1/genetics/ metabolism;Up-Regulation;Hand;Hiv;Sirt1;dementia;neurodegeneration
A let-7-to-miR-125 MicroRNA Switch Regulates Neuronal Integrity and Lifespan in Drosophila	G. Chawla, et al.	2016	27508495	Messenger RNAs (mRNAs) often contain binding sites for multiple, different microRNAs (miRNAs). However, the biological significance of this feature is unclear, since such co-targeting miRNAs could function coordinately, independently, or redundantly with one another. Here, we show that two co-transcribed Drosophila miRNAs, let-7 and miR-125, non-redundantly regulate a common target, the transcription factor Chronologically Inappropriate Morphogenesis (Chinmo). We first characterize novel adult phenotypes associated with loss of both let-7 and miR-125, which are derived from a common, polycistronic transcript that also encodes a third miRNA, miR-100. Consistent with the coordinate upregulation of all three miRNAs in aging flies, these phenotypes include brain degeneration and shortened lifespan. However, transgenic rescue analysis reveal separable roles for these miRNAs: adult miR-125 but not let-7 mutant phenotypes are associated with ectopic Chinmo expression in adult brains and are suppressed by chinmo reduction. In contrast, let-7 is predominantly responsible for regulating chinmo during nervous system formation. These results indicate that let-7 and miR-125 function during two distinct stages, development and adulthood, rather than acting at the same time. These different activities are facilitated by an increased rate of processing of let-7 during development and a lower rate of decay of the accumulated miR-125 in the adult nervous system. Thus, this work not only establishes a key role for the highly conserved miR-125 in aging. It also demonstrates that two co-transcribed miRNAs function independently during distinct stages to regulate a common target, raising the possibility that such biphasic control may be a general feature of clustered miRNAs.	Aging/genetics/pathology;Animals;Binding Sites;Brain/growth & development/metabolism;Drosophila/genetics/growth & development;Drosophila Proteins/biosynthesis/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Longevity/ genetics;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;Morphogenesis/genetics;Nerve Tissue Proteins/biosynthesis/ genetics;Nervous System/growth & development/pathology;Neurons/metabolism
Expression of amyloid-associated miRNAs in both the forebrain cortex and hippocampus of middle-aged rat	H. Che, et al.	2014	24401368	BACKGROUND: Aging is associated with the gradual cognitive decline and shows the typical senile plaque formation in the brain, which results from the aggregation of beta amyloid (Abeta) peptide following the abnormal proteolytic processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) by beta-secretase (BACE1) and gamma-secretase. Accumulating evidence indicates that several microRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in the Alzheimer's disease (AD) by regulating the expression of APP and BACE1 proteins. However, the cognitive ability and the expression profile of the APP- and BACE1-associated miRNAs in the middle-aged population are largely unknown. METHODS: The learning and memory ability in rats were determined by Morris Water Maze test. The protein levels of APP and BACE1 were detected by western blotting. The quantitative polymerase chain reaction was used to identify the miRNAs levels in forebrain cortex and the hippocampus. RESULTS: Middle-aged rats have declined learning ability without changes in the memory ability, and increased APP and BACE1 protein expression in the forebrain cortex. Computational analysis using Targetscan and Pictar databases reveals that totally 4 predicted miRNAs have conserved binding site with APP, namely miR-106b, -17-5p, -153, -101. All of them showed decreased expression in both the forebrain cortex and hippocampus. Among the 10 predicted miRNAs targeting BACE1, different expression profiles were identified in the forebrain cortex (decreased: miR-9, -19a, -135a, -15b, -16, -195, -29c, -214; increased: miR-124; no change: miR-141) and the hippocampus (decreased: miR-9, -15b, -16, -195, -29c, -124; increased: miR-19a, -135a, -214, -141) in the middle-aged rats compared with the young rats. CONCLUSION: Our results provided the first evidence that middle-aged rats have begun displaying cognitive disability with abnormal expression of APP- and BACE1-related miRNAs in the hippocampus and forebrain cortex.	Aging/ genetics;Amyloid/ metabolism;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/genetics/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/genetics/metabolism;Animals;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/genetics/metabolism;Cognition;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Hippocampus/ metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Rats, Wistar
MicroRNA-27a Promotes Inefficient Lysosomal Clearance in the Hippocampi of Rats Following Chronic Brain Hypoperfusion	H. Che, et al.	2017	26993299	Chronic brain hypoperfusion (CBH) induces the accumulation of abnormal cellular proteins, accompanied by cognitive decline, and the autophagic-lysosomal system is abnormal in dementia. Whether CBH accounts for autophagic-lysosomal neuropathology remains unknown. Here, we show that CBH significantly increased the number of autophagic vacuoles (AVs) with high LC3-II levels, but decreased SQSTM1 and cathepsin D levels in the hippocampi of rats following bilateral common carotid artery occlusion (2VO) for 2 weeks. Further studies showed that microRNA-27a (Mir27a) was upregulated at 2 weeks compared with the sham group. Additionally, LAMP-2 proteins were downregulated by Mir27a overexpression, upregulated by Mir27a inhibition, and unchanged by binding-site mutations or miR-masks, indicating that lamp-2 is the target of Mir27a. Knockdown of endogenous Mir27a prevented the reduction of LAMP-2 protein expression as well as the accumulation of AVs in the hippocampi of 2VO rats. Overexpression of Mir27a induced, while the knockdown of Mir27a reduced, the accumulation of AVs and the LC3-II level in cultured neonatal rat neurons. The results revealed that CBH in rats at 2 weeks could induce inefficient lysosomal clearance, which is regulated by the Mir27a-mediated downregulation of LAMP-2 protein expression. These findings provide an insight into a novel molecular mechanism of autophagy at the miRNA level.	Autophagy;Chronic brain hypoperfusion;Lamp-2;Lysosome;Mir27a
miR-125a-5p impairs endothelial cell angiogenesis in aging mice via RTEF-1 downregulation	P. Che, et al.	2014	25059272	Increasing evidence suggests that microRNAs (miRNAs) play important roles in impaired endothelial cell (EC) angiogenesis during aging. However, their exact roles in the aging process remain unclear. We aimed to determine whether miRNAs cause angiogenesis defects in ECs during aging and to uncover the underlying mechanisms. To study the miRNA-induced changes in ECs during aging, we performed microarray analyses on arterial ECs collected from young and aging mice. Using qRT-PCR, we showed that microRNA-125a-5p (mir-125a-5p) expression was approximately 2.9 times higher in old endothelial cells (OECs) compared with samples collected from young animals. Western blot assays showed a lower expression level of an mir-125a-5p target known as related transcriptional enhancer factor-1 (RTEF-1) in OECs compared with its expression levels in young cells. Overexpression of mir-125a-5p in young endothelial cells (YECs) using pre-mir-125a-5p caused the downregulation of RTEF-1, endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and resulted in impaired angiogenesis, as evidenced by spheroid sprouting and tube formation assays in vitro. Conversely, repression of mir-125a-5p in OECs using anti-mir-125a-5p increased RTEF-1, eNOS and VEGF expression and improved EC angiogenesis. Importantly, impaired angiogenesis caused by knock-down of RTEF-1 was not efficiently rescued by anti-mir-125a-5p. Dual-luciferase reporter gene analysis showed that RTEF-1 is a direct target of mir-125a-5p, which regulates angiogenesis by repressing RTEF-1 expression and modulating eNOS and VEGF expression. These findings indicate that mir-125a-5p and RTEF-1 are potential therapeutic targets for improving EC-mediated angiogenesis in elderly individuals.	Animals;Cell Aging/genetics/ physiology;DNA-Binding Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Down-Regulation;Endothelial Cells/metabolism/ physiology;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;Muscle Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Neovascularization, Physiologic;Nitric Oxide Synthase Type III/biosynthesis/genetics;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics/metabolism;Risk Factors;Transcription Factors/ genetics/metabolism;Transfection;Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A/biosynthesis/genetics;Rtef-1;aging;angiogenesis;endothelial cell;miRNA-125a-5p
Rapid detection of acute myocardial infarction-related miRNA based on a Capture-interCalation-electroCatalysis (3C) strategy	G. Chen, et al.	2016	26547429	Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is one of the most urgent and serious diseases that may cause cardiac death in a few hours. Rapid diagnosis of AMI is the pre-requisite for timely interventions. Recently, several specific circulating miRNAs have been proven to have high correlation with AMI. To adopt miRNA as a biomarker may improve the diagnostic accuracy. However, it is a pity that the current available methods for the detection of miRNA usually require a few hours, which is too long for the diagnosis of AMI. In this paper, by adopting a capture DNA, an electrochemical active intercalator and an unimmobilized enzyme, we develop a Capture-interCalation-electroCatalysis (3C) strategy for the rapid detection of AMI-related miRNA. The whole detection process can be completed in 35 min, which is much shorter than most current methods and is acceptable for the diagnosis of AMI. This strategy also shows favorable sensitivity and selectivity, thus provides an alternative for the detection of miRNA. Most importantly, this effort may promote miRNA to work as an effective biomarker in the diagnosis of AMI.	Biomarkers/analysis;Biosensing Techniques/ instrumentation;Catalysis;Conductometry/ instrumentation;DNA/chemistry;Equipment Design;Equipment Failure Analysis;Humans;MicroRNAs/ analysis/ genetics;Microelectrodes;Myocardial Infarction/ diagnosis/ genetics;Reproducibility of Results;Sensitivity and Specificity;Acute myocardial infarction;Electrocatalysis;Electrochemistry;Enzyme;Micrornas
A novel PAX6 deletion in a Chinese family with congenital aniridia	J. H. Chen, et al.	2012	22550392	PURPOSE: To identify a disease-causing paired box 6 (PAX6) gene mutation in a Chinese family affected by autosomal dominant congenital aniridia. METHODS: All participants in the study, including the aniridia family and 100 unrelated senile cataract controls, received a comprehensive ophthalmic examination. Genomic DNA was extracted from their whole blood. Mutation screen in all exons and their adjacent splicing junctions of PAX6 was performed by direct sequencing of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products. PCR products of heterozygous mutation were further cloned into T-vectors and confirmed by sequencing. Multiple alignments were performed using ClustalX to compare PAX6 protein sequences among vertebrates. MicroRNA binding sites were predicted by TargetScan. RESULTS: A novel heterozygous PAX6 deletion c.1251_1353del103 (p.Pro418Serfs*87) affecting exon 14 and the 3'-untranslated-region (3'-UTR) was identified in the congenital aniridia family. The mutation was exclusively observed in all affected family members but not in any unaffected family member or unrelated control. Bioinformatics analysis showed that the deletion led to remarkable changes of the PAX6 protein, including a frameshift, changes of protein sequence, and a COOH-terminal extension. Multiple alignments showed that the affected region of PAX6 shared high sequence identity (100%) among its vertebrate orthologs. The COOH-terminal extension might also affect microRNA binding sites in the 3'-UTR as predicted by TargetScan. CONCLUSIONS: In the current study we reported a novel PAX6 deletion resulting in an abnormal PAX6 COOH-terminal extension in the Chinese family affected by aniridia. Our findings thus add to the mutation spectrum of PAX6.	3' Untranslated Regions;Adult;Aged;Amino Acid Sequence;Aniridia/ genetics;Asian Continental Ancestry Group/ genetics;Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Case-Control Studies;Child;Child, Preschool;Exons;Eye Proteins/ genetics;Frameshift Mutation;Genes, Dominant;Heterozygote;Homeodomain Proteins/ genetics;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;PAX6 Transcription Factor;Paired Box Transcription Factors/ genetics;Pedigree;RNA-Binding Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Repressor Proteins/ genetics;Sequence Alignment
MiR-378 suppresses prostate cancer cell growth through downregulation of MAPK1 in vitro and in vivo	Q. G. Chen, et al.	2016	26346167	Prostate cancer is one of the biggest health problems for the aging male. To the present, the roles of dysregulated microRNAs in prostate cancer are still unclear. Here, we evaluated the anti-proliferative role of miR-378 in prostate cancer. And, we found that the expression of miR-378 was significantly downregulated in clinical prostate cancer tissues. In vitro assay suggested that overexpression of miR-378-suppressed prostate cancer cell migration and invasion promoted cell apoptosis. Furthermore, we identified and validated MAPK1 as a direct target of miR-378. Ectopic expression of MAPK1 rescues miR-378-suppressed cell migration and invasion. In vivo assay demonstrated that the stably miR-378-overexpressed prostate cancer cells displayed a significantly reduction in tumor growth. Taken together, our data suggested that miR-378 may act as a potential therapeutic target against human prostate cancer.	Adult;Aged;Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Blotting, Western;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Movement/genetics;Cell Proliferation/genetics;Down-Regulation;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/ genetics;Heterografts;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase 1/ biosynthesis/genetics;Prostatic Neoplasms/genetics/ pathology;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Mapk1;Prostate cancer;miR-378;microRNA
MicroRNA125b suppresses the proliferation and osteogenic differentiation of human bone marrowderived mesenchymal stem cells	S. Chen, et al.	2014	24604278	The regressive biological function of human bone marrowderived mesenchymal stem cells (hBMSCs) is one of the key factors resulting in the decrease of bone mass in senile osteoporosis. MicroRNAs (miRs) are noncoding small RNAs involved in various gene regulation processes. Whether any miR(s) are involved in the progression of osteoporosis by regulating the biological function of hBMSCs remains to be elucidated. The present study aimed to compare the expression levels of miR125b in hBMSCs derived from senile osteoporotic patients with that of control (normal) subjects. A significantly upregulated expression of miR125b in osteoporotic hBMSCs was detected. To elucidate the biological function of miR125b in senile osteoporosis, the effects of miR125b expression on proliferation and osteogenic differentiation of hBMSCs were assessed using gain and lossoffunction studies. It was evident that the overexpression of a miR125b mimic was able to suppress the proliferative and osteogenic differentiation of senile hBMSCs. In contrast, repression of the function of miR125b by transfection of an miR125b inhibitor promoted the proliferation and osteogenic differentiation of hBMSCs. Furthermore, the potential target gene of miR125b, osterix (Osx), was examined. The results of the present study strongly suggested that miR125b may regulate osteogenic differentiation of hBMSCs through the modulation of Osx expression.	Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Case-Control Studies;Cell Differentiation/ genetics;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ cytology/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Osteogenesis/ genetics;Osteoporosis/genetics/metabolism;Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;Young Adult
MicroRNA-17-92 cluster regulates pancreatic beta-cell proliferation and adaptation	Y. Chen, et al.	2016	27568466	MiR-17-92 cluster contributes to the regulation of mammalian development, aging and tumorigenesis. The functional roles of miR-17-92 in pancreatic beta-cells are largely unknown. In this study, we found that conditional deletion of miR-17-92 in mouse pancreatic beta-cells (miR-17-92betaKO) significantly reduces glucose tolerance and the first phase of insulin secretion, despite normal ad libitum fed and fasting glucose levels. Proliferation is down-regulated in pancreatic beta-cells after deleting miR-17-92. MiR-17-92betaKO mice show higher phosphatase and tensin homologue (PTEN) and lower phosphorylated AKT in islets. Under high fat diet challenge for 16 weeks, miR-17-92betaKO mice lose compensation and exhibit higher glucose levels, and lower insulin secretion. Collectively, these data suggest that miR-17-92 is a critical contributor to molecular mechanisms regulating glucose-stimulated insulin secretion and pancreatic beta-cell adaptation under metabolic stress.	Adaptation;MiR-17-92;Pten;Pancreatic beta-cells;Proliferation
Aberration of miRNAs Expression in Leukocytes from Sporadic Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis	Y. Chen, et al.	2016	27582688	BACKGROUND: Accumulating evidence indicates that miRNAs play an important role in the development of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Most of previous studies on miRNA dysregulation in ALS focused on the alterative expression in ALS animal model or in limited samples from European patients with ALS. In the present study, the miRNA expression profiles were investigated in Chinese ALS patients to explore leukocytes miRNAs as a potential biomarker for the diagnosis of ALS. METHODS: We analyzed the expression profiles of 1733 human mature miRNAs using microarray technology in leukocytes obtained from 5 patients with sporadic ALS (SALS) and 5 healthy controls. An independent group of 83 SALS patients, 24 Parkinson's disease (PD) patients and 61 controls was used for validation by real-time polymerase chain reaction assay. Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) was used to evaluate diagnostic accuracy. In addition, target genes and signaling information of validated differential expression miRNAs were predicted using Bioinformatics. RESULTS: Eleven miRNAs, including four over-expressed and seven under-expressed miRNAs detected in SALS patients compared to healthy controls were selected for validation. Four under-expressed microRNAs, including hsa-miR-183, hsa-miR-193b, hsa-miR-451, and hsa-miR-3935, were confirmed in validation stage by comparison of 83 SALS patients and 61 HCs. Moreover, we identified a miRNA panel (hsa-miR-183, hsa-miR-193b, hsa-miR-451, and hsa-miR-3935) having a high diagnostic accuracy of SALS (AUC 0.857 for the validation group). However, only hsa-miR-183 was significantly lower in SALS patients than that in PD patients and in HCs, while no differences were found between PD patients and HCs. By bioinformatics analysis, we obtained a large number of target genes and signaling information that are linked to neurodegeneration. CONCLUSION: This study provided evidence of abnormal miRNA expression patterns in the peripheral blood leukocytes of SALS patients. Leukocytes miRNAs provide a promising opportunity for detection of SALS. The specificity of under-expression of hsa-miR-183 in SALS needs to be confirmed by further miRNA studies on other neurodegenerative diseases.	amyotrophic lateral sclerosis;biomarker;hsa-miR-183;miRNAs;microarray;pathway
Rbfox proteins regulate microRNA biogenesis by sequence-specific binding to their precursors and target downstream Dicer	Y. Chen, et al.	2016	27001519	Rbfox proteins regulate tissue-specific splicing by targeting a conserved GCAUG sequence within pre-mRNAs. We report here that sequence-specific binding of the conserved Rbfox RRM to miRNA precursors containing the same sequence motif in their terminal loops, including miR-20b and miR-107, suppresses their nuclear processing. The structure of the complex between precursor miR-20b and Rbfox RRM shows the molecular basis for recognition, and reveals changes in the stem-loop upon protein binding. In mammalian cells, Rbfox2 downregulates mature miR-20b and miR-107 levels and increases the expression of their downstream targets PTEN and Dicer, respectively, suggesting that Rbfox2 indirectly regulates many more cellular miRNAs. Thus, some of the widespread cellular functions of Rbfox2 protein are attributable to regulation of miRNA biogenesis, and might include the mis-regulation of miR-20b and miR-107 in cancer and neurodegeneration.	DEAD-box RNA Helicases/ metabolism;Gene Expression;Gene Expression Regulation;HEK293 Cells;HeLa Cells;Humans;MCF-7 Cells;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/genetics;PTEN Phosphohydrolase/genetics/metabolism;Protein Binding;RNA Splicing Factors/ physiology;Repressor Proteins/ physiology;Ribonuclease III/ metabolism;Substrate Specificity
Oxidative stress activates endothelial innate immunity via sterol regulatory element binding protein 2 (SREBP2) transactivation of microRNA-92a	Z. Chen, et al.	2015	25550450	BACKGROUND: Oxidative stress activates endothelial innate immunity and disrupts endothelial functions, including endothelial nitric oxide synthase-derived nitric oxide bioavailability. Here, we postulated that oxidative stress induces sterol regulatory element-binding protein 2 (SREBP2) and microRNA-92a (miR-92a), which in turn activate endothelial innate immune response, leading to dysfunctional endothelium. METHODS AND RESULTS: Using cultured endothelial cells challenged by diverse oxidative stresses, hypercholesterolemic zebrafish, and angiotensin II-infused or aged mice, we demonstrated that SREBP2 transactivation of microRNA-92a (miR-92a) is oxidative stress inducible. The SREBP2-induced miR-92a targets key molecules in endothelial homeostasis, including sirtuin 1, Kruppel-like factor 2, and Kruppel-like factor 4, leading to NOD-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3 inflammasome activation and endothelial nitric oxide synthase inhibition. In endothelial cell-specific SREBP2 transgenic mice, locked nucleic acid-modified antisense miR-92a attenuates inflammasome, improves vasodilation, and ameliorates angiotensin II-induced and aging-related atherogenesis. In patients with coronary artery disease, the level of circulating miR-92a is inversely correlated with endothelial cell-dependent, flow-mediated vasodilation and is positively correlated with serum level of interleukin-1beta. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that SREBP2-miR-92a-inflammasome exacerbates endothelial dysfunction during oxidative stress. Identification of this mechanism may help in the diagnosis or treatment of disorders associated with oxidative stress, innate immune activation, and endothelial dysfunction.	Aged;Angiotensin II/toxicity;Animals;Coronary Disease/blood/physiopathology;Endothelial Cells/metabolism;Endothelium, Vascular/ metabolism;Female;Free Radical Scavengers/pharmacology;Gene Expression Regulation;Genes, Reporter;HEK293 Cells;Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells;Humans;Hydrogen Peroxide/toxicity;Hypercholesterolemia/genetics;Immunity, Innate/ genetics;Inflammasomes/ metabolism;Interleukin-1beta/blood;Lipoproteins, LDL/toxicity;Male;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Middle Aged;Organometallic Compounds/pharmacology;Oxidative Stress/ genetics/immunology;Recombinant Fusion Proteins/metabolism;Salicylates/pharmacology;Sterol Regulatory Element Binding Protein 2/genetics/ physiology;Transcriptional Activation;Zebrafish;Zebrafish Proteins/physiology;endothelium;inflammasomes;microRNA-92;oxidative stress;sterol regulatory element binding protein 2
MicroRNA-144 is regulated by activator protein-1 (AP-1) and decreases expression of Alzheimer disease-related a disintegrin and metalloprotease 10 (ADAM10)	C. Cheng, et al.	2013	23546882	BACKGROUND: MicroRNA (miR) dysregulation is found in Alzheimer disease (AD). A disintegrin and metalloprotease 10 (ADAM10) prevents generation of amyloid beta (Abeta) and decrease AD pathology. RESULTS: miR-144 suppresses ADAM10 expression and is up-regulated by activator protein-1. CONCLUSION: miR-144 is a negative regulator of ADAM10 and may be involved in AD pathogenesis. SIGNIFICANCE: The first work to demonstrate the function of miRNA-144 and its regulation in the pathogenesis of AD. Amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) accumulating in the brain of Alzheimer disease (AD) patients is believed to be the main pathophysiologcal cause of the disease. Proteolytic processing of the amyloid precursor protein by alpha-secretase ADAM10 (a disintegrin and metalloprotease 10) protects the brain from the production of the Abeta. Meanwhile, dysregulation or aberrant expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) has been widely documented in AD patients. In this study, we demonstrated that overexpression of miR-144, which was previously reported to be increased in elderly primate brains and AD patients, significantly decreased activity of the luciferase reporter containing the ADAM10 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) and suppressed the ADAM10 protein level, whereas the miR-144 inhibitor led to an increase of the luciferase activity. The negative regulation caused by miR-144 was strictly dependent on the binding of the miRNA to its recognition element in the ADAM10 3'-UTR. Moreover, we also showed that activator protein-1 regulates the transcription of miR-144 and the up-regulation of miR-144 at least partially induces the suppression of the ADAM10 protein in the presence of Abeta. In addition, we found that miR-451, a miRNA processed from a single gene locus with miR-144, is also involved in the regulation of ADAM10 expression. Taken together, our data therefore demonstrate miR-144/451 is a negative regulator of the ADAM10 protein and suggest a mechanistic role for miR-144/451 in AD pathogenesis.	3' Untranslated Regions;ADAM Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;ADAM10 Protein;Alzheimer Disease/ enzymology;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/genetics/ metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/physiology;Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Enzyme Repression;Genes, Reporter;HeLa Cells;Humans;Membrane Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/metabolism/ physiology;Promoter Regions, Genetic;RNA Interference;Response Elements;Transcription Factor AP-1/ metabolism;Transcription, Genetic;Adam adamts;Adam10;Alzheimers Disease;Amyloid;Gene Regulation;MicroRNA;miR-144
Prognostic serum miRNA biomarkers associated with Alzheimer's disease shows concordance with neuropsychological and neuroimaging assessment	L. Cheng, et al.	2015	25349172	There is no consensus for a blood-based test for the early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Expression profiling of small non-coding RNA's, microRNA (miRNA), has revealed diagnostic potential in human diseases. Circulating miRNA are found in small vesicles known as exosomes within biological fluids such as human serum. The aim of this work was to determine a set of differential exosomal miRNA biomarkers between healthy and AD patients, which may aid in diagnosis. Using next-generation deep sequencing, we profiled exosomal miRNA from serum (N=49) collected from the Australian Imaging, Biomarkers and Lifestyle Flagship Study (AIBL). Sequencing results were validated using quantitative reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR; N=60), with predictions performed using the Random Forest method. Additional risk factors collected during the 4.5-year AIBL Study including clinical, medical and cognitive assessments, and amyloid neuroimaging with positron emission tomography were assessed. An AD-specific 16-miRNA signature was selected and adding established risk factors including age, sex and apolipoprotein varepsilon4 (APOE varepsilon4) allele status to the panel of deregulated miRNA resulted in a sensitivity and specificity of 87% and 77%, respectively, for predicting AD. Furthermore, amyloid neuroimaging information for those healthy control subjects incorrectly classified with AD-suggested progression in these participants towards AD. These data suggest that an exosomal miRNA signature may have potential to be developed as a suitable peripheral screening tool for AD.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ blood/diagnosis/ genetics;Biomarkers/blood;Case-Control Studies;Exosomes/genetics;Female;Genetic Testing;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood;Neuroimaging/methods;Neuropsychological Tests;Prognosis;Reproducibility of Results;Sensitivity and Specificity;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Transcriptome
The detection of microRNA associated with Alzheimer's disease in biological fluids using next-generation sequencing technologies	L. Cheng, et al.	2013	23964286	Diagnostic tools for neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) currently involve subjective neuropsychological testing and specialized brain imaging techniques. While definitive diagnosis requires a pathological brain evaluation at autopsy, neurodegenerative changes are believed to begin years before the clinical presentation of cognitive decline. Therefore, there is an essential need for reliable biomarkers to aid in the early detection of disease in order to implement preventative strategies. microRNAs (miRNA) are small non-coding RNA species that are involved in post-transcriptional gene regulation. Expression levels of miRNAs have potential as diagnostic biomarkers as they are known to circulate and tissue specific profiles can be identified in a number of bodily fluids such as plasma, CSF and urine. Recent developments in deep sequencing technology present a viable approach to develop biomarker discovery pipelines in order to profile miRNA signatures in bodily fluids specific to neurodegenerative diseases. Here we review the potential use of miRNA deep sequencing in biomarker identification from biological fluids and its translation into clinical practice.	Alzheimer's disease;biological fluids;deep sequencing;exosomes;microRNA
MicroRNA-125b modulates inflammatory chemokine CCL4 expression in immune cells and its reduction causes CCL4 increase with age	N. L. Cheng, et al.	2015	25620312	Chemokines play a pivotal role in regulating the immune response through a tightly controlled expression. Elevated levels of inflammatory chemokines commonly occur with aging but the mechanism underlying this age-associated change is not fully understood. Here, we report the role of microRNA-125b (miR-125b) in regulating inflammatory CC chemokine 4 (CCL4) expression in human immune cells and its altered expression with aging. We first analyzed the mRNA level of CCL4 in eight different types of immune cells including CD4 and CD8 T-cell subsets (naive, central and effector memory), B cells and monocytes in blood from both young (</=42 years) and old (>/=70 years) adults. We observed that monocytes and naive CD8 T cells expressed higher levels of CCL4 and exhibited an age-related increase in CCL4. We then found the level of miR-125b was inversely correlated with the level of CCL4 in these cells, and the level of miR-125b was reduced in monocytes and naive CD8 T cells of the old compared to the young adults. Knock-down of miR-125b by shRNA in monocytes and naive CD8 T cells led to an increase of CCL4 protein, whereas enhanced miR-125b expression by transfection in naive CD8 T cells resulted in a reduction of the CCL4 mRNA and protein in response to stimulation. Finally, we demonstrated that miR-125b action requires the 'seed' sequence in 3'UTR of CCL4. Together these findings demonstrated that miR-125b is a negative regulator of CCL4 and its reduction is partially responsible for the age-related increase of CCL4.	3' Untranslated Regions;Age Factors;Aged;CD8-Positive T-Lymphocytes/ immunology;Cell Aging/ immunology;Chemokine CCL4/ biosynthesis/genetics/immunology;Humans;Lymphocyte Activation;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/genetics/ immunology;Monocytes/ immunology;Ccl4;aging;and naive CD8 T cell;immune cells;miR-125b;monocyte
miR-196a ameliorates phenotypes of Huntington disease in cell, transgenic mouse, and induced pluripotent stem cell models	P. H. Cheng, et al.	2013	23810380	Huntington disease (HD) is a dominantly inherited neurodegenerative disorder characterized by dysregulation of various genes. Recently, microRNAs (miRNAs) have been reported to be involved in this dysregulation, suggesting that manipulation of appropriate miRNA regulation may have a therapeutic benefit. Here, we report the beneficial effects of miR-196a (miR196a) on HD in cell, transgenic mouse models, and human induced pluripotent stem cells derived from one individual with HD (HD-iPSCs). In the in vitro results, a reduction of mutant HTT and pathological aggregates, accompanying the overexpression of miR-196a, was observed in HD models of human embryonic kidney cells and mouse neuroblastoma cells. In the in vivo model, HD transgenic mice overexpressing miR-196a revealed the suppression of mutant HTT in the brain and also showed improvements in neuropathological progression, such as decreases of nuclear, intranuclear, and neuropil aggregates and late-stage behavioral phenotypes. Most importantly, miR-196a also decreased HTT expression and pathological aggregates when HD-iPSCs were differentiated into the neuronal stage. Mechanisms of miR-196a in HD might be through the alteration of ubiquitin-proteasome systems, gliosis, cAMP response element-binding protein pathway, and several neuronal regulatory pathways in vivo. Taken together, these results show that manipulating miR-196a provides beneficial effects in HD, suggesting the potential therapeutical role of miR-196a in HD.	Animals;Brain/metabolism/pathology;Cell Differentiation;Cell Line, Tumor;Disease Models, Animal;Embryo, Mammalian;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Huntington Disease/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Kidney/metabolism/pathology;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Neurons/cytology/ metabolism;Phenotype;Pluripotent Stem Cells/cytology/ metabolism;Serotonin Plasma Membrane Transport Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Transfection
Age-dependent neuron loss is associated with impaired adult neurogenesis in forebrain neuron-specific Dicer conditional knockout mice	S. Cheng, et al.	2014	25448413	Impairment in the microRNA (miRNA) network causes a number of neurodegenerative diseases. Endoribonuclease Dicer is a key RNase to produce mature miRNAs. It has been shown that Dicer is important for the maintenance of excitatory neuron survival during early postnatal period. However, the role of Dicer in adult mature excitatory neuron survival is not clear. In this study, we generated a mouse model in which Dicer is conditionally inactivated in forebrain excitatory neurons from a mature stage, and this line is termed Dicer conditional knockout (cKO). Significant age-dependent neurodegeneration was observed in the cortex of Dicer cKO mice, indicating an important role of Dicer in the maintenance of mature excitatory neuron survival in the adult cortex. Impairment in adult neurogenesis was found in 6-month but not in young Dicer cKO mice. However, astrocytosis was detected in young Dicer cKO mice displaying no apparent neuron loss. Overall, neurogenesis impairment and neuroinflammation may play pivotal roles in the progression of neurodegeneration.	Age Factors;Animals;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/ deficiency/genetics;Disease Models, Animal;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/genetics;Nerve Degeneration/genetics/ pathology;Neurodegenerative Diseases/ genetics/ pathology;Neurogenesis/genetics/ physiology;Neurons/ pathology;Prosencephalon/ pathology;Ribonuclease III/ deficiency/genetics;Dicer;Mouse model;Neuron loss;Neuronal survival;miRNA
Nodes and biological processes identified on the basis of network analysis in the brain of the senescence accelerated mice as an Alzheimer's disease animal model	X. R. Cheng, et al.	2013	24194717	Harboring the behavioral and histopathological signatures of Alzheimer's disease (AD), senescence accelerated mouse-prone 8 (SAMP8) mice are currently considered a robust model for studying AD. However, the underlying mechanisms, prioritized pathways and genes in SAMP8 mice linked to AD remain unclear. In this study, we provide a biological interpretation of the molecular underpinnings of SAMP8 mice. Our results were derived from differentially expressed genes in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex of SAMP8 mice compared to age-matched SAMR1 mice at 2, 6, and 12 months of age using cDNA microarray analysis. On the basis of PPI, MetaCore and the co-expression network, we constructed a distinct genetic sub-network in the brains of SAMP8 mice. Next, we determined that the regulation of synaptic transmission and apoptosis were disrupted in the brains of SAMP8 mice. We found abnormal gene expression of RAF1, MAPT, PTGS2, CDKN2A, CAMK2A, NTRK2, AGER, ADRBK1, MCM3AP, and STUB1, which may have initiated the dysfunction of biological processes in the brains of SAMP8 mice. Specifically, we found microRNAs, including miR-20a, miR-17, miR-34a, miR-155, miR-18a, miR-22, miR-26a, miR-101, miR-106b, and miR-125b, that might regulate the expression of nodes in the sub-network. Taken together, these results provide new insights into the biological and genetic mechanisms of SAMP8 mice and add an important dimension to our understanding of the neuro-pathogenesis in SAMP8 mice from a systems perspective.	Alzheimer's disease;apoptosis;cerebral cortex;differential expressed genes;hippocampus;molecular network;senescence accelerated mouse prone 8;synaptic transmission
TMEM106B, the risk gene for frontotemporal dementia, is regulated by the microRNA-132/212 cluster and affects progranulin pathways	A. S. Chen-Plotkin, et al.	2012	22895706	Frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP-43 inclusions (FTLD-TDP) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease with no available treatments. Mutations in the progranulin gene (GRN) causing impaired production or secretion of progranulin are a common Mendelian cause of FTLD-TDP; additionally, common variants at chromosome 7p21 in the uncharacterized gene TMEM106B were recently linked by genome-wide association to FTLD-TDP with and without GRN mutations. Here we show that TMEM106B is neuronally expressed in postmortem human brain tissue, and that expression levels are increased in FTLD-TDP brain. Furthermore, using an unbiased, microarray-based screen of >800 microRNAs (miRs), we identify microRNA-132 as the top microRNA differentiating FTLD-TDP and control brains, with <50% normal expression levels of three members of the microRNA-132 cluster (microRNA-132, microRNA-132*, and microRNA-212) in disease. Computational analyses, corroborated empirically, demonstrate that the top mRNA target of both microRNA-132 and microRNA-212 is TMEM106B; both microRNAs repress TMEM106B expression through shared microRNA-132/212 binding sites in the TMEM106B 3'UTR. Increasing TMEM106B expression to model disease results in enlargement and poor acidification of endo-lysosomes, as well as impairment of mannose-6-phosphate-receptor trafficking. Finally, endogenous neuronal TMEM106B colocalizes with progranulin in late endo-lysosomes, and TMEM106B overexpression increases intracellular levels of progranulin. Thus, TMEM106B is an FTLD-TDP risk gene, with microRNA-132/212 depression as an event which can lead to aberrant overexpression of TMEM106B, which in turn alters progranulin pathways. Evidence for this pathogenic cascade includes the striking convergence of two independent, genomic-scale screens on a microRNA:mRNA regulatory pair. Our findings open novel directions for elucidating miR-based therapies in FTLD-TDP.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Aged;Analysis of Variance;Animals;Autoantigens/metabolism;Binding Sites/genetics;Brain/metabolism/pathology;Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor/pharmacology;Cells, Cultured;DNA-Binding Proteins/genetics;Embryo, Mammalian;Enzyme Inhibitors/pharmacology;Female;Frontotemporal Dementia/ genetics/pathology;GTPase-Activating Proteins/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects/genetics;Genetic Testing;Hippocampus;Humans;Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Luminescent Agents/metabolism;Lysosomal-Associated Membrane Protein 1/metabolism;Male;Membrane Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ genetics;Neurons/drug effects;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide/genetics;Signal Transduction/ physiology;Transfection;trans-Golgi Network/metabolism
RNA therapeutics: RNAi and antisense mechanisms and clinical applications	J. Chery	2016	27570789	RNA therapeutics refers to the use of oligonucleotides to target primarily ribonucleic acids (RNA) for therapeutic efforts or in research studies to elucidate functions of genes. Oligonucleotides are distinct from other pharmacological modalities, such as small molecules and antibodies that target mainly proteins, due to their mechanisms of action and chemical properties. Nucleic acids come in two forms: deoxyribonucleic acids (DNA) and ribonucleic acids (RNA). Although DNA is more stable, RNA offers more structural variety ranging from messenger RNA (mRNA) that codes for protein to non-coding RNAs, microRNA (miRNA), transfer RNA (tRNA), short interfering RNAs (siRNAs), ribosomal RNA (rRNA), and long-noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs). As our understanding of the wide variety of RNAs deepens, researchers have sought to target RNA since >80% of the genome is estimated to be transcribed. These transcripts include non-coding RNAs such as miRNAs and siRNAs that function in gene regulation by playing key roles in the transfer of genetic information from DNA to protein, the final product of the central dogma in biology1. Currently there are two main approaches used to target RNA: double stranded RNA-mediated interference (RNAi) and antisense oligonucleotides (ASO). Both approaches are currently in clinical trials for targeting of RNAs involved in various diseases, such as cancer and neurodegeneration. In fact, ASOs targeting spinal muscular atrophy and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis have shown positive results in clinical trials2. Advantages of ASOs include higher affinity due to the development of chemical modifications that increase affinity, selectivity while decreasing toxicity due to off-target effects. This review will highlight the major therapeutic approaches of RNA medicine currently being applied with a focus on RNAi and ASOs.	Antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs);Locked Nucleic Acids (LNAs);RNA therapeutics;siRNAs
Maintenance of muscle stem-cell quiescence by microRNA-489	T. H. Cheung, et al.	2012	22358842	Among the key properties that distinguish adult mammalian stem cells from their more differentiated progeny is the ability of stem cells to remain in a quiescent state for prolonged periods of time. However, the molecular pathways for the maintenance of stem-cell quiescence remain elusive. Here we use adult mouse muscle stem cells (satellite cells) as a model system and show that the microRNA (miRNA) pathway is essential for the maintenance of the quiescent state. Satellite cells that lack a functional miRNA pathway spontaneously exit quiescence and enter the cell cycle. We identified quiescence-specific miRNAs in the satellite-cell lineage by microarray analysis. Among these, miRNA-489 (miR-489) is highly expressed in quiescent satellite cells and is quickly downregulated during satellite-cell activation. Further analysis revealed that miR-489 functions as a regulator of satellite-cell quiescence, as it post-transcriptionally suppresses the oncogene Dek, the protein product of which localizes to the more differentiated daughter cell during asymmetric division of satellite cells and promotes the transient proliferative expansion of myogenic progenitors. Our results provide evidence of the miRNA pathway in general, and of a specific miRNA, miR-489, in actively maintaining the quiescent state of an adult stem-cell population.	Animals;Cell Cycle/drug effects/ genetics;Cell Differentiation/drug effects;Cell Lineage/drug effects;Cell Survival/drug effects/genetics;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/genetics/metabolism;DNA-Binding Proteins/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Myoblasts/ cytology/drug effects/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Oncogene Proteins/genetics;Ribonuclease III/genetics/metabolism;Satellite Cells, Skeletal Muscle/cytology/drug effects/metabolism;Tamoxifen/pharmacology;Transcription, Genetic/drug effects
Short- and long-term changes in blood miRNA levels after nanogold injection in rats--potential biomarkers of nanoparticle exposure	W. S. Chew, et al.	2012	23030236	CONTEXT: Increased use of engineered nanoparticles may result in exposure of workers and consumers, making them a health concern. OBJECTIVE: To identify potential blood miRNA biomarkers after intravenous gold nanoparticle (AuNP) exposure. MATERIALS AND METHODS: miRNA microarray analysis was carried out on blood of rats at 1 week and 2 months after injection. RESULTS: Many up- and downregulated miRNAs were detected. Of these, rno-miR-298 was confirmed to be increased at 1 week postinjection by reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR). DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: Blood miRNAs could be useful as biomarkers for exposure to nanoparticles. miR-298 regulates beta-amyloid (Abeta) precursor protein-converting enzyme-1 (BACE1) in Alzheimer's disease.	Animals;Biomarkers/ blood;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;Gold/ chemistry;Injections, Intravenous;Metal Nanoparticles/ administration & dosage/chemistry;MicroRNAs/ blood/genetics;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Rats;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Time Factors
A coregulatory network of NR2F1 and microRNA-140	D. Y. Chiang, et al.	2013	24349493	BACKGROUND: Both nuclear receptor subfamily 2 group F member 1 (NR2F1) and microRNAs (miRNAs) have been shown to play critical roles in the developing and functional inner ear. Based on previous studies suggesting interplay between NR2F1 and miRNAs, we investigated the coregulation between NR2F1 and miRNAs to better understand the regulatory mechanisms of inner ear development and functional maturation. RESULTS: Using a bioinformatic approach, we identified 11 potential miRNAs that might coregulate target genes with NR2F1 and analyzed their targets and potential roles in physiology and disease. We selected 6 miRNAs to analyze using quantitative real-time (qRT) -PCR and found that miR-140 is significantly down-regulated by 4.5-fold (P=0.004) in the inner ear of NR2F1 knockout (Nr2f1(-/-)) mice compared to wild-type littermates but is unchanged in the brain. Based on this, we performed chromatin-immunoprecipitation followed by qRT-PCR and confirmed that NR2F1 directly binds and regulates both miR-140 and Klf9 in vivo. Furthermore, we performed luciferase reporter assay and showed that miR-140 mimic directly regulates KLF9-3'UTR, thereby establishing and validating an example coregulatory network involving NR2F1, miR-140, and Klf9. CONCLUSIONS: We have described and experimentally validated a novel tissue-dependent coregulatory network for NR2F1, miR-140, and Klf9 in the inner ear and we propose the existence of many such coregulatory networks important for both inner ear development and function.	3' Untranslated Regions/physiology;Animals;COUP Transcription Factor I/genetics/ metabolism;Down-Regulation/physiology;Ear, Inner/cytology/ metabolism;Gene Regulatory Networks/ physiology;Humans;Kruppel-Like Transcription Factors/biosynthesis/genetics;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism
Withdrawn: MicroRNAs as potential regulators of docosahexaenoic acid benefits in Alzheimer's disease	V. S. Chiang	2015	25771962	Withdrawal: We regret that it has become necessary to withdraw this article published online ahead of print on the 14th March 2015 in Nutritional Neuroscience. At the time of publication, the author of this paper was no longer a registered student at the the University of Auckland and the paper was published without the University's permission. The Editor and publisher acted in good faith on the basis of the information available at the time of acceptance and remain committed to the highest ethical and scientific standards in the peer review and publication of submissions.	
IFN-beta antiproliferative effect and miRNA regulation in Human Papilloma Virus E6- and E7-transformed keratinocytes	M. V. Chiantore, et al.	2017	26748726	Human Papilloma Viruses (HPVs) are the causative agents of cervical cancer although other types of cancers are associated with HPV infection. Type I Interferons can interfere with HPV E6- and/or E7-dependent transformation and can affect microRNA (miRNA) expression. Cancer cells show a specific pattern of miRNA expression and HPVs are able to modulate miRNAs expressed in infected cells. Keratinocytes transduced with E6 and E7 from mucosal HPV-16 or cutaneous HPV-38 (K16 and K38) were studied to analyze the involvement of HPV oncoproteins in the anti-proliferative activity of IFN-beta. In view of our previous data showing senescence induction by the cytokine in K38 cells, we observe that IFN-beta treatment leads to p53-indipendent apoptosis in K16 cells whereas induces senescence in K16 cells if E6 is silenced and p53 expression is restored. The levels of selected miRNAs, deregulated in K16 and K38 cells, can be modulated by IFN-beta when E6 and E7 proteins of HPV-16, but not HPV-38, are expressed.	Apoptosis;Human Papilloma Virus;Interferon;MicroRNAs;Senescence
MicroRNA-34a: a new piece in the cardiac aging puzzle	Y. A. Chiao	2013	23963163		Aging/ physiology;Animals;Gene Expression Regulation;Heart/ physiology;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Myocardium/ metabolism;aging;microRNA;myocardial infarction
Correlation between microRNA-34a levels and lens opacity severity in age-related cataracts	K. H. Chien, et al.	2013	23661155	PURPOSE: MicroRNA 34a (miR-34a) is involved in regulating tissue senescence. However, the role of miR-34a in age-related cataracts is unclear. In this study, we evaluated the correlations among the severity of lens opacity, patient age, and miR-34a expression level in the lens epithelium of age-related cataracts for clarifying the role of miR-34a in the lens senescence. METHODS: This study was carried as a case control study in the Department of Ophthalmology, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taiwan. We recorded age of each patient at the time of their cataract surgery and information regarding lens opacity according to a modified version of the Lens Opacities Classification System III. Correlations among age, lens opacity, and miR-34a expression levels were evaluated. RESULTS: This study evaluated 110 patients with a mean age of 73.19 years (SD+/-10.2). Older patients had higher nuclear cataract (NC), cortical (C), and posterior subcapsular cataract (P) scores (one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA), P<0.05). miR-34a expression levels were significantly different between each age group (ANOVA post hoc Bonferroni's test, P<0.001), and there were moderate correlations between high NC, C, and P cataract scores and high miR-34a levels (Pearson correlation coefficient; R=0.606, 0.575, and 0.515, respectively). CONCLUSIONS: The current study demonstrated positive correlations between high miR-34a levels and high lens opacity severity in NC, C, or P cataracts. These results suggest that miR-34a expression has a role in lens senescence.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Analysis of Variance;Case-Control Studies;Cataract/ metabolism/pathology;Cohort Studies;Epithelium/metabolism;Female;Humans;Lens, Crystalline/ metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/ analysis;Middle Aged;Severity of Illness Index;Taiwan
Class II phosphoinositide 3-kinase C2beta regulates a novel signaling pathway involved in breast cancer progression	A. Chikh, et al.	2016	26934321	It is now well established that the enzymes phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks) have a key role in the development and progression of many cancer types and indeed PI3Ks inhibitors are currently being tested in clinical trials. Although eight distinct PI3K isoforms exist, grouped into three classes, most of the evidence currently available are focused on one specific isoform with very little known about the potential role of the other members of this family in cancer. Here we demonstrate that the class II enzyme PI3K-C2beta is overexpressed in several human breast cancer cell lines and in human breast cancer specimens. Our data indicate that PI3K-C2beta regulates breast cancer cell growth in vitro and in vivo and that PI3K-C2beta expression in breast tissues is correlated with the proliferative status of the tumor. Specifically we show that downregulation of PI3K-C2beta in breast cancer cell lines reduces colony formation, induces cell cycle arrest and inhibits tumor growth, in particular in an estrogen-dependent in vivo xenograft. Investigation of the mechanism of the PI3K-C2beta-dependent regulation of cell cycle progression and cell growth revealed that PI3K-C2beta regulates cyclin B1 protein levels through modulation of microRNA miR-449a levels. Our data further demonstrate that downregulation of PI3K-C2beta inhibits breast cancer cell invasion in vitro and breast cancer metastasis in vivo. Consistent with this, PI3K-C2beta is highly expressed in lymph-nodes metastases compared to matching primary tumors. These data demonstrate that PI3K-C2beta plays a pivotal role in breast cancer progression and in metastasis development. Our data indicate that PI3K-C2beta may represent a key molecular switch that regulates a rate-limiting step in breast tumor progression and therefore it may be targeted to limit breast cancer spread.	Animals;Breast Neoplasms/ enzymology/pathology;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation/physiology;Class II Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases/genetics/ metabolism;Disease Progression;Female;Heterografts;Humans;MCF-7 Cells;Mice;Mice, Nude;Signal Transduction;breast cancer;cyclinB1;metastasis;miR449;phosphoinositide 3-kinase C2beta
Acute exercise leads to regulation of telomere-associated genes and microRNA expression in immune cells	W. L. Chilton, et al.	2014	24752326	Telomeres are specialized nucleoprotein structures that protect chromosomal ends from degradation. These structures progressively shorten during cellular division and can signal replicative senescence below a critical length. Telomere length is predominantly maintained by the enzyme telomerase. Significant decreases in telomere length and telomerase activity are associated with a host of chronic diseases; conversely their maintenance underpins the optimal function of the adaptive immune system. Habitual physical activity is associated with longer leukocyte telomere length; however, the precise mechanisms are unclear. Potential hypotheses include regulation of telomeric gene transcription and/or microRNAs (miRNAs). We investigated the acute exercise-induced response of telomeric genes and miRNAs in twenty-two healthy males (mean age = 24.1+/-1.55 years). Participants undertook 30 minutes of treadmill running at 80% of peak oxygen uptake. Blood samples were taken before exercise, immediately post-exercise and 60 minutes post-exercise. Total RNA from white blood cells was submitted to miRNA arrays and telomere extension mRNA array. Results were individually validated in white blood cells and sorted T cell lymphocyte subsets using quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR). Telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) mRNA (P = 0.001) and sirtuin-6 (SIRT6) (P<0.05) mRNA expression were upregulated in white blood cells after exercise. Fifty-six miRNAs were also differentially regulated post-exercise (FDR <0.05). In silico analysis identified four miRNAs (miR-186, miR-181, miR-15a and miR-96) that potentially targeted telomeric gene mRNA. The four miRNAs exhibited significant upregulation 60 minutes post-exercise (P<0.001). Telomeric repeat binding factor 2, interacting protein (TERF2IP) was identified as a potential binding target for miR-186 and miR-96 and demonstrated concomitant downregulation (P<0.01) at the corresponding time point. Intense cardiorespiratory exercise was sufficient to differentially regulate key telomeric genes and miRNAs in white blood cells. These results may provide a mechanistic insight into telomere homeostasis and improved immune function and physical health.	Adult;Exercise/ physiology;Exercise Test;Gene Expression Regulation;Genome, Human/genetics;Humans;Immune System/ cytology;Leukocytes/ metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Polymerase Chain Reaction;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Reproducibility of Results;T-Lymphocytes/cytology/metabolism;Telomere/ genetics
Dicer and microRNAs protect adult dopamine neurons	P. Chmielarz, et al.	2017	28542144	MicroRNAs (miRs) are important post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression implicated in neuronal development, differentiation, aging and neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease (PD). Several miRs have been linked to PD-associated genes, apoptosis and stress response pathways, suggesting that deregulation of miRs may contribute to the development of the neurodegenerative phenotype. Here, we investigate the cell-autonomous role of miR processing RNAse Dicer in the functional maintenance of adult dopamine (DA) neurons. We demonstrate a reduction of Dicer in the ventral midbrain and altered miR expression profiles in laser-microdissected DA neurons of aged mice. Using a mouse line expressing tamoxifen-inducible CreERT2 recombinase under control of the DA transporter promoter, we show that a tissue-specific conditional ablation of Dicer in DA neurons of adult mice led to decreased levels of striatal DA and its metabolites without a reduction in neuronal body numbers in hemizygous mice (DicerHET) and to progressive loss of DA neurons with severe locomotor deficits in nullizygous mice (DicerCKO). Moreover, we show that pharmacological stimulation of miR biosynthesis promoted survival of cultured DA neurons and reduced their vulnerability to thapsigargin-induced endoplasmic reticulum stress. Our data demonstrate that Dicer is crucial for maintenance of adult DA neurons, whereas a stimulation of miR production can promote neuronal survival, which may have direct implications for PD treatment.	
MicroRNA-205 regulates the expression of Parkinson's disease-related leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 protein	H. J. Cho, et al.	2013	23125283	Recent genome-wide association studies indicate that a simple alteration of Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) gene expression may contribute to the etiology of sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD). However, the expression and regulation of LRRK2 protein in the sporadic PD brains remain to be determined. Here, we found that the expression of LRRK2 protein was enhanced in the sporadic PD patients using the frontal cortex tissue from a set of 16 PD patients and 7 control samples. In contrast, no significant difference was detected in the level of LRRK2 mRNA expression between the control and PD cases, suggesting a potential post-transcriptional modification of the LRRK2 protein expression in the sporadic PD brains. Indeed, it was identified that microRNA-205 (miR-205) suppressed the expression of LRRK2 protein through a conserved-binding site at the 3'-untranslated region (UTR) of LRRK2 gene. Interestingly, miR-205 expression was significantly downregulated in the brains of patients with sporadic PD, showing the enhanced LRRK2 protein levels. Also, in vitro studies in the cell lines and primary neuron cultures further established the role of miR-205 in modulating the expression of LRRK2 protein. In addition, introduction of miR-205 prevented the neurite outgrowth defects in the neurons expressing a PD-related LRRK2 R1441G mutant. Together, these findings suggest that downregulation of miR-205 may contribute to the potential pathogenic elevation of LRRK2 protein in the brains of patients with sporadic PD, while overexpression of miR-205 may provide an applicable therapeutic strategy to suppress the abnormal upregulation of LRRK2 protein in PD.	Amino Acid Sequence;Animals;Blotting, Western;Brain/pathology;Dopaminergic Neurons/cytology/metabolism;Down-Regulation;Genetic Markers;Genome-Wide Association Study;HEK293 Cells;HeLa Cells;Humans;Leucine-Rich Repeat Serine-Threonine Protein Kinase-2;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Mutation, Missense;Neurons/cytology/metabolism;Parkinson Disease/ genetics/physiopathology;Prefrontal Cortex/metabolism/physiopathology;Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;Up-Regulation
MicroRNA-31 is a transcriptional target of histone deacetylase inhibitors and a regulator of cellular senescence	J. H. Cho, et al.	2015	25737447	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as important regulators of tumorigenesis. Several miRNAs, which can function either as oncomiRs or tumor suppressive miRs are deregulated in cancer cells. The microRNA-31 (miR-31) has been shown to be overexpressed in metastatic breast cancer. It promotes multiple oncogenic phenotypes, including proliferation, motility, and invasion of cancer cells. Using a breast cancer-related miRNA array analysis, we identified miR-31 as a novel target of histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) in breast cancer cells. Specifically, we show that sodium butyrate (NaB) and panobinostat (LBH589), two broad-spectrum HDAC inhibitors up-regulate hsa-miR-31 (miR-31). The up-regulation of miR-31 was accompanied by repression of the polycomb group (PcG) protein BMI1 and induction of cellular senescence. We further show that inhibition of miR-31 overcomes the senescence-inducing effect of HDACi, and restores expression of the PcG protein BMI1. Interestingly, BMI1 also acts as a repressor of miR-31 transcription, suggesting a cross-negative feedback loop between the expression of miR-31 and BMI1. Our data suggest that miR-31 is an important physiological target of HDACi, and that it is an important regulator of senescence relevant to cancer. These studies further suggest that manipulation of miR-31 expression can be used to modulate senescence-related pathological conditions such as cancer, and the aging process.	Apoptosis;Butyric Acid/ pharmacology;Cell Aging/drug effects/ genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Feedback, Physiological;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Histone Deacetylase Inhibitors/ pharmacology;Humans;Hydroxamic Acids/ pharmacology;Indoles/ pharmacology;MCF-7 Cells;MicroRNAs/agonists/ genetics/metabolism;Microarray Analysis;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Polycomb Repressive Complex 1/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Transcription, Genetic;Breast Cancer;Histone Deacetylase Inhibitor (HDAC Inhibitor) (HDI);MicroRNA (miRNA);Polycomb;Senescence;bmi1
Genome-scale DNA methylation pattern profiling of human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells in long-term culture	M. R. Choi, et al.	2012	22684242	Human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) expanded in vitro exhibit not only a tendency to lose their proliferative potential, homing ability and telomere length but also genetic or epigenetic modifications, resulting in senescence. We compared differential methylation patterns of genes and miRNAs between early-passage [passage 5 (P5)] and late-passage (P15) cells and estimated the relationship between senescence and DNA methylation patterns. When we examined hypermethylated genes (methylation peak >/= 2) at P5 or P15, 2,739 genes, including those related to fructose and mannose metabolism and calcium signaling pathways, and 2,587 genes, including those related to DNA replication, cell cycle and the PPAR signaling pathway, were hypermethylated at P5 and P15, respectively. There was common hypermethylation of 1,205 genes at both P5 and P15. In addition, genes that were hypermethylated at P5 (CPEB1, GMPPA, CDKN1A, TBX2, SMAD9 and MCM2) showed lower mRNA expression than did those hypermethylated at P15, whereas genes that were hypermethylated at P15 (MAML2, FEN1 and CDK4) showed lower mRNA expression than did those that were hypermethylated at P5, demonstrating that hypermethylation at DNA promoter regions inhibited gene expression and that hypomethylation increased gene expression. In the case of hypermethylation on miRNA, 27 miRNAs were hypermethylated at P5, whereas 44 miRNAs were hypermethylated at P15. These results show that hypermethylation increases at genes related to DNA replication, cell cycle and adipogenic differentiation due to long-term culture, which may in part affect MSC senescence.	Bone Marrow Cells/ metabolism;DNA Methylation;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ metabolism;MicroRNAs;Molecular Sequence Annotation;Primary Cell Culture;Promoter Regions, Genetic;Reproducibility of Results;Signal Transduction;Telomere Shortening
Elevated microRNA-34a in obesity reduces NAD+ levels and SIRT1 activity by directly targeting NAMPT	S. E. Choi, et al.	2013	23834033	SIRT1 is an NAD(+)-dependent deacetylase that is implicated in prevention of many age-related diseases including metabolic disorders. As SIRT1 deacetylase activity is dependent on NAD(+) levels and the development of compounds that directly activate SIRT1 has been controversial, indirectly activating SIRT1 through enhancing NAD(+) bioavailability has received increasing attention. NAD(+) levels are reduced in obesity and the aged, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We recently showed that hepatic microRNA-34a (miR-34a), which is elevated in obesity, directly targets and decreases SIRT1 expression. Here, we further show that miR-34a reduces NAD(+) levels and SIRT1 activity by targeting NAMPT, the rate-limiting enzyme for NAD(+) biosynthesis. A functional binding site for miR-34a is present in the 3' UTR of NAMPT mRNA. Hepatic overexpression of miR-34a reduced NAMPT/NAD(+) levels, increased acetylation of the SIRT1 target transcriptional regulators, PGC-1alpha, SREBP-1c, FXR, and NF-kappaB, and resulted in obesity-mimetic outcomes. The decreased NAMPT/NAD(+) levels were independent of miR-34a effects on SIRT1 levels as they were also observed in SIRT1 liver-specific knockout mice. Further, the miR-34a-mediated decreases were reversed by treatment with the NAD(+) intermediate, nicotinamide mononucleotide. Conversely, antagonism of miR-34a in diet-induced obese mice restored NAMPT/NAD(+) levels and alleviated steatosis, inflammation, and glucose intolerance. Anti-miR-34a-mediated increases in NAD(+) levels were attenuated when NAMPT was downregulated. Our findings reveal a novel function of miR-34a in reducing both SIRT1 expression and activity in obesity. The miR-34a/NAMPT axis presents a potential target for treating obesity- and aging-related diseases involving SIRT1 dysfunction like steatosis and type 2 diabetes.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Animals;Cytokines/genetics/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Silencing;Liver/metabolism;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;NAD/ metabolism;Nicotinamide Phosphoribosyltransferase/genetics/ metabolism;Obesity/ genetics;Protein Binding/genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Sirtuin 1/ metabolism;deacetylation;diabetes;miR-34a;resveratrol;sirtuins;steatosis
MicroRNA let-7g cooperates with interferon/ribavirin to repress hepatitis C virus replication	W. W. Chou, et al.	2016	26489607	MicroRNAs (miRNA) have been implicated in HCV infection. The present study analyzed the effects of let-7g on HCV infection in vitro, in clinical tissue and serum samples. Here, we show that the expression of let-7g in serum and liver tissue is significantly higher in patients with sustained virologic response (SVR). We show that interferon (IFN)/ribavirin (RBV) induces let-7g expression through p38/AP-1 signaling. Overexpression of let-7g reduced HCV gene or core protein level and inhibited the HCV viral load. The let-7g and IFN/RBV have additively inhibitory effect on HCV replication. These data implicate let-7g as a new therapeutic drug to additively cooperate with IFN/RBV to repress HCV replication. Key messages: let-7g expression is increased in serum and liver tissue of patients with SVR. Interferon/ribavirin induces let-7g expression through p38/AP-1 signaling. Overexpression of let-7g can repress HCV replication. Let-7g additively cooperates with interferon/ribavirin to repress HCV replication. Lin28B silencing can reverse let-7g expression and repress HCV replication.	Antiviral Agents/ pharmacology/therapeutic use;Cell Line;Hepacivirus/ drug effects/genetics/physiology;Hepatitis C/blood/ drug therapy/ genetics/virology;Humans;Interferon-alpha/ pharmacology/therapeutic use;Liver/metabolism/pathology/virology;MAP Kinase Signaling System/drug effects;MicroRNAs/blood/ genetics;Ribavirin/ pharmacology/therapeutic use;Up-Regulation/drug effects;Viral Load/drug effects;Virus Replication/drug effects;Hcv;Ifn;Jfh;Let-7g;Rbv
Epigenomics in environmental health	B. C. Christensen and C. J. Marsit	2011	22303378	This review considers the emerging relationships between environmental factors and epigenetic alterations and the application of genome-wide assessments to better define these relationships. First we will briefly cover epigenetic programming in development, one-carbon metabolism, and exposures that may disrupt normal developmental programming of epigenetic states. In addition, because a large portion of epigenetic research has focused on cancer, we discuss exposures associated with carcinogenesis including asbestos, alcohol, radiation, arsenic, and air pollution. Research on other exposures that may affect epigenetic states such as endocrine disruptors is also described, and we also review the evidence for epigenetic alterations associated with aging that may reflect cumulative effects of exposures. From this evidence, we posit potential mechanisms by which exposures modify epigenetic states, noting that understanding the true effect of environmental exposures on the human epigenome will require additional research with appropriate epidemiologic studies and application of novel technologies. With a more comprehensive understanding of the affects of exposures on the epigenome, including consideration of genetic background, the prediction of the toxic potential of new compounds may be more readily achieved, and may lead to the development of more personalized disease prevention and treatment strategies.	DNA methylation;aging;arsenic;asbestos;endocrine disruptors;exposures;metals;microRNA
miR-638 regulates gene expression networks associated with emphysematous lung destruction	S. A. Christenson, et al.	2013	24380442	BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a heterogeneous disease characterized by varying degrees of emphysematous lung destruction and small airway disease, each with distinct effects on clinical outcomes. There is little known about how microRNAs contribute specifically to the emphysema phenotype. We examined how genome-wide microRNA expression is altered with regional emphysema severity and how these microRNAs regulate disease-associated gene expression networks. METHODS: We profiled microRNAs in different regions of the lung with varying degrees of emphysema from 6 smokers with COPD and 2 controls (8 regions x 8 lungs = 64 samples). Regional emphysema severity was quantified by mean linear intercept. Whole genome microRNA and gene expression data were integrated in the same samples to build co-expression networks. Candidate microRNAs were perturbed in human lung fibroblasts in order to validate these networks. RESULTS: The expression levels of 63 microRNAs (P < 0.05) were altered with regional emphysema. A subset, including miR-638, miR-30c, and miR-181d, had expression levels that were associated with those of their predicted mRNA targets. Genes correlated with these microRNAs were enriched in pathways associated with emphysema pathophysiology (for example, oxidative stress and accelerated aging). Inhibition of miR-638 expression in lung fibroblasts led to modulation of these same emphysema-related pathways. Gene targets of miR-638 in these pathways were amongst those negatively correlated with miR-638 expression in emphysema. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate that microRNAs are altered with regional emphysema severity and modulate disease-associated gene expression networks. Furthermore, miR-638 may regulate gene expression pathways related to the oxidative stress response and aging in emphysematous lung tissue and lung fibroblasts.	
p53-independent upregulation of miR-34a during oncogene-induced senescence represses MYC	N. R. Christoffersen, et al.	2010	19696787	Aberrant oncogene activation induces cellular senescence, an irreversible growth arrest that acts as a barrier against tumorigenesis. To identify microRNAs (miRNAs) involved in oncogene-induced senescence, we examined the expression of miRNAs in primary human TIG3 fibroblasts after constitutive activation of B-RAF. Among the regulated miRNAs, both miR-34a and miR-146a were strongly induced during senescence. Although members of the miR-34 family are known to be transcriptionally regulated by p53, we find that miR-34a is regulated independently of p53 during oncogene-induced senescence. Instead, upregulation of miR-34a is mediated by the ETS family transcription factor, ELK1. During senescence, miR-34a targets the important proto-oncogene MYC and our data suggest that miR-34a thereby coordinately controls a set of cell cycle regulators. Hence, in addition to its integration in the p53 pathway, we show that alternative cancer-related pathways regulate miR-34a, emphasising its significance as a tumour suppressor.	Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Cycle/genetics;Cell Division/genetics;Cell Line, Transformed;Fibroblasts/ cytology/ physiology;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Neoplasms/genetics/pathology;Oncogenes/physiology;Proto-Oncogene Proteins B-raf/genetics/metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-myc/ genetics/metabolism;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/metabolism;Up-Regulation/physiology;ets-Domain Protein Elk-1/genetics/metabolism
Dietary flaxseed modulates the miRNA profile in irradiated and non-irradiated murine lungs: a novel mechanism of tissue radioprotection by flaxseed	M. Christofidou-Solomidou, et al.	2014	24755684	INTRODUCTION: Dietary flaxseed (FS) displays antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties in preclinical models of lung disease including radiation-induced pneumonopathy, however the mechanisms of lung radioprotection are incompletely understood. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short oligonucleotides that act as important posttranscriptional regulators of diverse networks including inflammatory response networks. Responses of miRNA profiles to diet and radiation exposure have been reported, but the potential contribution of miRNAs to diet-related radioprotection has never been tested. METHODS: In this exploratory pilot study, mice were fed 10% FS or a 0% FS isocaloric control diet and exposed to a single-fraction 13.5 Gy thoracic X-ray radiation treatment (XRT). Lung RNA was extracted 48 h post-XRT and small RNAs profiled by OpenArray. RESULTS: FS significantly modulated expression of multiple miRNAs, including 7 with P<0.001. miR-150 was downregulated approximately 2.9-fold in the FS groups and is disproportionately integrated into immune response-related networks. Although few miRNAs were significantly changed by radiation, interaction between diet and radiation was observed. For example, miR-29c was greatly downregulated in the FS/Control group (10- to 50-fold) but slightly upregulated in the FS/radiation group. Compared with FS/control, the FS/radiation group experienced a 50% decrease of the p53-responsive miR-34a, which regulates senescence- and apoptosis-related factors. CONCLUSIONS: FS induced significant changes in lung miRNA profile suggesting that modulation of small RNA by dietary supplements may represent a novel strategy to prevent adverse side-effects of thoracic radiotherapy. This pilot study provides insight into a potential mechanism of flaxseed's radioprotection and provides a useful model-system to further explore and optimize such small RNA-based therapies.	Animals;Diet;Flax;Lung/immunology/metabolism/ radiation effects;Mice;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Phytotherapy;Pilot Projects;Seeds;Ros;antioxidant;flaxseed;inflammation;lung fibrosis;lung injury;miR-150;miR-29c;miR-34a;miRNA;mouse model;radiation pneumonopathy
Astrocytic CCAAT/Enhancer Binding Protein delta Regulates Neuronal Viability and Spatial Learning Ability via miR-135a	Y. Y. Chu, et al.	2016	26208701	The progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been associated with astrocytes-induced neuroinflammation. However, the detailed mechanism of astrocytes associated with learning impairments and neuronal loss in AD is poorly defined. Here, we provide novel evidences that astrocytic miR-135a is critical for neuronal viability and spatial learning ability in vivo. The AppTg/Cebpd (-/-) mice showed a spatial learning improvement compared with the APPswe/PS1/E9 bigenic (AppTg) mice. miR-135a was found to be a CCAAT/enhancer binding protein delta (CEBPD) responsive miRNA and can repress the transcription of thrombospondin 1 (THBS1) / Thbs1 (mouse) via its 3'-untranslated region (3'UTR). We used different experimental approaches to attenuate the expression of CEBPD/Cebpd (mouse) or miR-135a in astrocytes and found the following results: increase in THBS1/Thbs1 expression, decrease in neuronal apoptosis, and increase in growth of neurites. Importantly, injection of miR-135a antagonist (AM135a) into the brain of AppTg mice was found to prevent neuronal apoptosis and improved the spatial learning ability. Together, our findings demonstrate a critical function for the astrocytic CEBPD, and point to miR-135a antagonist as an attractive therapeutic target for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.	Neuroinflammation;Neuronal viability;Neuroprotective factor;Spatial learning ability;miR-135a
miR-29b attenuates tumorigenicity and stemness maintenance in human glioblastoma multiforme by directly targeting BCL2L2	H. J. Chung, et al.	2015	26155940	Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most common malignant brain tumor and exhibits aggressive and invasive behavior. We previously identified four miRNAs-miR-29b, 494, 193a-3p, and 30e-with enhanced expression in GBM following treatment of ionizing radiation by miRNA microarray analysis. In this study, we found that only miR-29b inhibited tumor cell migration and invasion by reducing MMP-2 activity via phospho-AKT/beta-catenin signaling, and stimulated a more epithelial-like morphology. Moreover, miR-29b inhibits angiogenesis by attenuating tube formation and the expression of VEGF and Ang-2, and stemness maintenance in GBM cells, as demonstrated by decreasing neurosphere formation and cancer stem cell marker protein expression. These findings support the anti-tumor properties of miR-29b in human GBM cells. Furthermore, miR-29b expression was inversely proportional to that of BCL2L2 mRNA or protein in various cancer cell types. Interestingly, BCL2L2 mRNA is highly expressed in the mesenchymal type of GBM. To further elucidate the relationship between miR-29b and BCL2L2 in GBM, we performed co-transfection reporter assays and determined that miR-29b downregulates BCL2L2 expression by directly binding its 3'UTR. Finally, we confirmed that BCL2L2 repression is of central importance to miR-29b anti-tumor activity using functional assays to examine cell migration, invasion, angiogenesis, and stemness. From these data, we propose that miR-29b may be a useful therapeutic agent in GBM.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Blood Vessels/metabolism;Blotting, Western;Brain Neoplasms/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Movement/genetics/radiation effects;Cells, Cultured;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Glioblastoma/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells/metabolism;Humans;MCF-7 Cells;Matrix Metalloproteinase 2/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Neoplastic Stem Cells/ metabolism/pathology;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/metabolism;RNA Interference;Radiation, Ionizing;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction/genetics;Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A/genetics/metabolism;beta Catenin/genetics/metabolism;Bcl2l2;Gbm;miR-29b;stemness;tumorigenicity
Understanding Epigenetic Alterations in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's Disease: Towards Targeted Biomarkers and Therapies	F. Ciceri, et al.	2017	28120717	BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease represent the two most common neurodegenerative disorders, affecting an increasing number of patients worldwide. Population ageing and lack of effective therapies and biomarkers strongly contribute to the socio-economical impact of these conditions. Message and Conclusion: The aim of the review is to present a summary of the discoveries made on the epigenetics of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, with a special focus on the recent advances towards the identification of new targeted therapies and biomarkers. Data supporting broad spectrum and selective small-molecule inhibition of enzymes controlling DNA methylation and histone modifications are discussed in the context of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. The results obtained from studies performed on patients samples are also mentioned, to provide a picture of the efforts made toward identification of epigenetic-based biomarkers. Finally, given the importance of non-coding RNAs in neurodegeneration, their contribution to Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease will be examined, together with a brief summary of the available miRNA-based biomarker signatures for these two conditions.	Alzheimer's disease;DNA methylation;Epigenetic;Parkinson s disease;biomarker;histone acetylation;histone modification;targeted therapy
SOX2-LIN28/let-7 pathway regulates proliferation and neurogenesis in neural precursors	F. Cimadamore, et al.	2013	23884650	The transcription factor SRY (sex-determining region)-box 2 (SOX2) is an important functional marker of neural precursor cells (NPCs) and plays a critical role in self-renewal and neuronal differentiation; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying its functions are poorly understood. Using human embryonic stem cell-derived NPCs to model neurogenesis, we found that SOX2 is required to maintain optimal levels of LIN28, a well-characterized suppressor of let-7 microRNA biogenesis. Exogenous LIN28 expression rescued the NPC proliferation deficit, as well as the early but not the late stages of the neurogenic deficit associated with the loss of SOX2. We found that SOX2 binds to a proximal site in the LIN28 promoter region and regulates LIN28 promoter acetylation, likely through interactions with the histone acetyltransferase complex. Misexpression of let-7 microRNAs in NPCs reduced proliferation and inhibited neuronal differentiation, phenocopying the loss of SOX2. In particular, we identified let-7i as a novel and potent inhibitor of neuronal differentiation that targets MASH1 and NGN1, two well-characterized proneural genes. In conclusion, we discovered the SOX2-LIN28/let-7 pathway as a unique molecular mechanism governing NPC proliferation and neurogenic potential.	Animals;Base Sequence;Cell Differentiation/genetics;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Embryonic Stem Cells/cytology/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Immunohistochemistry;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neural Stem Cells/cytology/ metabolism;Neurogenesis/ genetics;Neurons/cytology/metabolism;RNA Interference;RNA-Binding Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;SOXB1 Transcription Factors/ genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction/genetics;mechanisms of pluripotency;neural stem cells
Protumorigenic effects of mir-145 loss in malignant pleural mesothelioma	M. Cioce, et al.	2014	24240684	We identified a discrete number of microRNAs differentially expressed in benign or malignant mesothelial tissues. We focused on mir-145 whose levels were significantly downregulated in malignant mesothelial tissues and malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) cell lines as compared to benign tissues (pleura, peritoneum or cysts). We show that promoter hyper-methylation caused very low levels in MPM cell lines and specimens. Treatment of MPM cell lines with mir-145 agonists negatively modulated some protumorigenic properties of MPM cells, such as clonogenicity, cell migration and resistance to pemetrexed treatment. The main effector mechanism of the clonogenic death induced by mir-145 was that of accelerated senescence. We found that mir-145 targeted OCT4 via specific binding to its 3'-UTR. Increased intracellular levels of mir-145 decreased the levels of OCT4 and its target gene ZEB1, thereby counteracting the increase of OCT4 induced by pemetrexed treatment which is known to favor the development of chemoresistant cells. In line with this, reintroduction of OCT4 into mimic-145 treated cells counteracted the effects on clonogenicity and replicative senescence. This further supports the relevance of the mir-145-OCT4 interaction for the survival of MPM cells. The potential use of mir-145 expression levels to classify benign vs malignant mesothelial tissues and the differences between pemetrexed-induced senescence and that induced by the re-expression of mir-145 are discussed.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Animals;Antineoplastic Agents/pharmacology;Base Sequence;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Line;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Movement/genetics;Cell Survival/drug effects/genetics;DNA Methylation;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Glutamates/pharmacology;Guanine/analogs & derivatives/pharmacology;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Lung Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Male;Mesothelioma/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Mice, SCID;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Octamer Transcription Factor-3/genetics/metabolism;Pemetrexed;Pleural Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid
The miR-17-92 cluster counteracts quiescence and chemoresistance in a distinct subpopulation of pancreatic cancer stem cells	M. Cioffi, et al.	2015	25887381	OBJECTIVE: Cancer stem cells (CSCs) represent the root of many solid cancers including pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, are highly chemoresistant and represent the cellular source for disease relapse. However the mechanisms involved in these processes still need to be fully elucidated. Understanding the mechanisms implicated in chemoresistance and metastasis of pancreatic cancer is critical to improving patient outcomes. DESIGN: Micro-RNA (miRNA) expression analyses were performed to identify functionally defining epigenetic signatures in pancreatic CSC-enriched sphere-derived cells and gemcitabine-resistant pancreatic CSCs. RESULTS: We found the miR-17-92 cluster to be downregulated in chemoresistant CSCs versus non-CSCs and demonstrate its crucial relevance for CSC biology. In particular, overexpression of miR-17-92 reduced CSC self-renewal capacity, in vivo tumourigenicity and chemoresistance by targeting multiple NODAL/ACTIVIN/TGF-beta1 signalling cascade members as well as directly inhibiting the downstream targets p21, p57 and TBX3. Overexpression of miR-17-92 translated into increased CSC proliferation and their eventual exhaustion via downregulation of p21 and p57. Finally, the translational impact of our findings could be confirmed in preclinical models for pancreatic cancer. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings therefore identify the miR-17-92 cluster as a functionally determining family of miRNAs in CSCs, and highlight the putative potential of developing modulators of this cluster to overcome drug resistance in pancreatic CSCs.	Activins/metabolism;Animals;Antimetabolites, Antineoplastic/ pharmacology/therapeutic use;Carcinoma, Pancreatic Ductal/drug therapy/genetics/ metabolism;Cell Cycle Checkpoints/drug effects;Cell Self Renewal;Cell Transformation, Neoplastic;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/genetics/metabolism;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p57/metabolism;Deoxycytidine/ analogs & derivatives/pharmacology/therapeutic use;Down-Regulation;Drug Resistance, Neoplasm/ genetics;Epigenesis, Genetic;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Humans;Mice;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;Neoplastic Stem Cells/drug effects/ metabolism;Nodal Protein/metabolism;Pancreatic Neoplasms/drug therapy/genetics/ metabolism;Signal Transduction;T-Box Domain Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Transcriptome;Transforming Growth Factor beta1/metabolism;Cell cycle control;Drug resistance;Intracellular signaling;Pancreatic cancer;Stem cells
The miR-25-93-106b cluster regulates tumor metastasis and immune evasion via modulation of CXCL12 and PD-L1	M. Cioffi, et al.	2017	28423491	The stromal microenvironment controls response to injury and inflammation, and is also an important determinant of cancer cell behavior. However, our understanding of its modulation by miRNA (miR) and their respective targets is still sparse. Here, we identified the miR-25-93-106b cluster and two new target genes as critical drivers for metastasis and immune evasion of cancer cells. Using miR-25-93-106b knockout mice or antagomiRs, we demonstrated regulation of the production of the chemoattractant CXCL12 controlling bone marrow metastasis. Moreover, we identified the immune checkpoint PD-L1 (CD274) as a novel miR-93/106b target playing a central role in diminishing tumor immunity. Eventually, upregulation of miR-93 and miR-106b via miR-mimics or treatment with an epigenetic reader domain (BET) inhibitor resulted in diminished expression of CXCL12 and PD-L1. These data suggest a potential new therapeutic rationale for use of BET inhibitors for dual targeting of cancers with strong immunosuppressive and metastatic phenotypes.	Cd274;Mdsc;bone marrow;metastasis;stromal niche
MiR-93 Controls Adiposity via Inhibition of Sirt7 and Tbx3	M. Cioffi, et al.	2015	26321631	Conquering obesity has become a major socioeconomic challenge. Here, we show that reduced expression of the miR-25-93-106b cluster, or miR-93 alone, increases fat mass and, subsequently, insulin resistance. Mechanistically, we discovered an intricate interplay between enhanced adipocyte precursor turnover and increased adipogenesis. First, miR-93 controls Tbx3, thereby limiting self-renewal in early adipocyte precursors. Second, miR-93 inhibits the metabolic target Sirt7, which we identified as a major driver of in vivo adipogenesis via induction of differentiation and maturation of early adipocyte precursors. Using mouse parabiosis, obesity in mir-25-93-106b(-/-) mice could be rescued by restoring levels of circulating miRNA and subsequent inhibition of Tbx3 and Sirt7. Downregulation of miR-93 also occurred in obese ob/ob mice, and this phenocopy of mir-25-93-106b(-/-) was partially reversible with injection of miR-93 mimics. Our data establish miR-93 as a negative regulator of adipogenesis and a potential therapeutic option for obesity and the metabolic syndrome.	3T3-L1 Cells;Adipocytes/physiology;Adipogenesis;Adipose Tissue/metabolism/pathology;Adipose Tissue, White/metabolism/pathology;Adiposity;Animals;Cell Self Renewal;Female;Insulin Resistance;Male;Metabolic Syndrome X/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Knockout;Mice, Obese;MicroRNAs/ physiology;RNA Interference;Sirtuins/ genetics/metabolism;T-Box Domain Proteins/ genetics/metabolism
Resolvin D1 enhances the resolution of lung inflammation caused by long-term Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection	M. Codagnone, et al.	2017	28422188	Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection is a main cause of disability and mortality worldwide. Acute inflammation and its timely resolution are crucial for ensuring bacterial clearance and limiting tissue damage. Here, we investigated protective actions of resolvin (Rv) D1 in lung infection induced by the RP73 clinical strain of P. aeruginosa. RvD1 significantly diminished bacterial growth and neutrophil infiltration during acute pneumonia caused by RP73. Inoculum of RP73, immobilized in agar beads, resulted in persistent lung infection up to 21 days, leading to a non resolving inflammation reminiscent of human pathology. RvD1 significantly reduced bacterial titer, leukocyte infiltration, and lung tissue damage. In murine lung macrophages sorted during P. aeruginosa chronic infection, RvD1 regulated the expression of Toll-like receptors, downstream genes, and microRNA (miR)-21 and 155, resulting in reduced inflammatory signaling. In vitro, RvD1 enhanced phagocytosis of P. aeruginosa by neutrophils and macrophages, recapitulating its in vivo actions. These results unveil protective functions and mechanisms of action of RvD1 in acute and chronic P. aeruginosa pneumonia, providing evidence for its potent pro-resolution and tissue protective properties on airway mucosal tissue during infection.Mucosal Immunology advance online publication 19 April 2017; doi:10.1038/mi.2017.36.	
Lipoxin A4 stimulates endothelial miR-126-5p expression and its transfer via microvesicles	M. Codagnone, et al.	2017	28100645	The proresolution lipid mediator lipoxin (LX)A4 bestows protective bioactions on endothelial cells. We examined the impact of LXA4 on transcellular endothelial signaling via microRNA (miR)-containing microvesicles. We report LXA4 inhibition of MV release by TNF-alpha-treated HUVECs, associated with the down-regulation of 18 miR in endothelial microvesicles (EMVs) and the up-regulation of miR-126-5p, both in HUVECs and in EMVs. LXA4 up-regulated miR-126-5p by approximately 5-fold in HUVECs and promoted a release of microvesicles (LXA4-EMVs) that enhanced miR-126-5p by approximately 7-fold in recipient HUVECs. In these cells, LXA4-EMVs abrogated the up-regulation of VCAM-1, induced in recipient HUVECs by EMVs released by untreated or TNF-alpha-treated HUVECs. LXA4-EMVs also reduced by approximately 40% the expression of SPRED1, which we validated as an miR-126-5p target, whereas they stimulated monolayer repair in an in vitro wound assay. This effect was lost when the EMVs were depleted of miR-126-5p. These results provide evidence that changes in miR expression and microvesicle packaging and transfer represent a mechanism of action of LXA4, which may be relevant in vascular biology and inflammation.-Codagnone, M., Recchiuti, A., Lanuti, P., Pierdomenico, A. M., Cianci, E., Patruno, S., Mari, V. C., Simiele, F., Di Tomo, P., Pandolfi, A., Romano, M. Lipoxin A4 stimulates endothelial miR-126-5p expression and its transfer via microvesicles.	inflammation;intercellular signaling;microRNA;proresolving mediators;vascular repair
Wnt-5a-regulated miR-101b controls COX2 expression in hippocampal neurons	J. F. Codocedo and N. C. Inestrosa	2016	26895946	BACKGROUND: Wnt-5a is a member of the WNT family of secreted lipoglycoproteins, whose expression increases during development; moreover, Wnt-5a plays a key role in synaptic structure and function in the adult nervous system. However, the mechanism underlying these effects is still elusive. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a family of small non-coding RNAs that control the gene expression of their targets through hybridization with complementary sequences in the 3' UTR, thereby inhibiting the translation of the target proteins. Several evidences indicate that the miRNAs are actively involved in the regulation of neuronal function. RESULTS: In the present study, we examined whether Wnt-5a modulates the levels of miRNAs in hippocampal neurons. Using PCR arrays, we identified a set of miRNAs that respond to Wnt-5a treatment. One of the most affected miRNAs was miR-101b, which targets cyclooxygenase-2 (COX2), an inducible enzyme that converts arachidonic acid to prostanoids, and has been involved in the injury/inflammatory response, and more recently in neuronal plasticity. Consistent with the Wnt-5a regulation of miR-101b, this Wnt ligand regulates COX2 expression in a time-dependent manner in cultured hippocampal neurons. CONCLUSION: The biological processes induced by Wnt-5a in hippocampal neurons, involve the regulation of several miRNAs including miR-101b, which has the capacity to regulate several targets, including COX-2 in the central nervous system.	Animals;Blotting, Western;Cells, Cultured;Cyclooxygenase 2/ analysis;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Targeting;Hippocampus/chemistry/ enzymology;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Neuronal Plasticity;Neurons/chemistry/ enzymology;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Wnt Proteins/ physiology;Wnt-5a Protein
Wnt-related SynGAP1 is a neuroprotective factor of glutamatergic synapses against Abeta oligomers	J. F. Codocedo, et al.	2015	26124704	Wnt-5a is a synaptogenic factor that modulates glutamatergic synapses and generates neuroprotection against Abeta oligomers. It is known that Wnt-5a plays a key role in the adult nervous system and synaptic plasticity. Emerging evidence indicates that miRNAs are actively involved in the regulation of synaptic plasticity. Recently, we showed that Wnt-5a is able to control the expression of several miRNAs including miR-101b, which has been extensively studied in carcinogenesis. However, its role in brain is just beginning to be explored. That is why we aim to study the relationship between Wnt-5a and miRNAs in glutamatergic synapses. We performed in silico analysis which predicted that miR-101b may inhibit the expression of synaptic GTPase-Activating Protein (SynGAP1), a Ras GTPase-activating protein critical for the development of cognition and proper synaptic function. Through overexpression of miR-101b, we showed that miR-101b is able to regulate the expression of SynGAP1 in an hippocampal cell line. Moreover and consistent with a decrease of miR-101b, Wnt-5a enhances SynGAP expression in cultured hippocampal neurons. Additionally, Wnt-5a increases the activity of SynGAP in a time-dependent manner, with a similar kinetic to CaMKII phosphorylation. This also, correlates with a modulation in the SynGAP clusters density. On the other hand, Abeta oligomers permanently decrease the number of SynGAP clusters. Interestingly, when neurons are co-incubated with Wnt-5a and Abeta oligomers, we do not observe the detrimental effect of Abeta oligomers, indicating that, Wnt-5a protects neurons from the synaptic failure triggered by Abeta oligomers. Overall, our findings suggest that SynGAP1 is part of the signaling pathways induced by Wnt-5a. Therefore, possibility exists that SynGAP is involved in the synaptic protection against Abeta oligomers.	Alzheimer disease;CamKII;SynGAP;Wnt-5a;microRNAs
Selective release of muscle-specific, extracellular microRNAs during myogenic differentiation	A. M. Coenen-Stass, et al.	2016	27466195	MyomiRs are muscle-specific microRNAs (miRNAs) that regulate myoblast proliferation and differentiation. Extracellular myomiRs (ex-myomiRs) are highly enriched in the serum of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) patients and dystrophic mouse models and consequently have potential as disease biomarkers. The biological significance of miRNAs present in the extracellular space is not currently well understood. Here we demonstrate that ex-myomiR levels are elevated in perinatal muscle development, during the regenerative phase that follows exercise-induced myoinjury, and concomitant with myoblast differentiation in culture. Whereas ex-myomiRs are progressively and specifically released by differentiating human primary myoblasts and C2C12 cultures, chemical induction of apoptosis in C2C12 cells results in indiscriminate miRNA release. The selective release of myomiRs as a consequence of cellular differentiation argues against the idea that they are solely waste products of muscle breakdown, and suggests they may serve a biological function in specific physiological contexts. Ex-myomiRs in culture supernatant and serum are predominantly non-vesicular, and their release is independent of ceramide-mediated vesicle secretion. Furthermore, ex-myomiRs levels are reduced in aged dystrophic mice, likely as a consequence of chronic muscle wasting. In conclusion, we show that myomiR release accompanies periods of myogenic differentiation in cell culture and in vivo. Serum myomiR abundance is therefore a function of the regenerative/degenerative status of the muscle, overall muscle mass, and tissue expression levels. These findings have implications for the use of ex-myomiRs as biomarkers for DMD disease progression and monitoring response to therapy.	
Identification of miRNA changes in Alzheimer's disease brain and CSF yields putative biomarkers and insights into disease pathways	J. P. Cogswell, et al.	2008	18525125	MicroRNAs have essential functional roles in brain development and neuronal specification but their roles in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) is unknown. Using a sensitive qRT-PCR platform we identified regional and stage-specific deregulation of miRNA expression in AD patient brains. We used experimental validation in addition to literature to reveal how the deregulated brain microRNAs are biomarkers for known and novel pathways in AD pathogenesis related to amyloid processing, neurogenesis, insulin resistance, and innate immunity. We additionally recovered miRNAs from cerebrospinal fluid and discovered AD-specific miRNA changes consistent with their role as potential biomarkers of disease.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ cerebrospinal fluid/ genetics/physiopathology;Amyloid/metabolism;Biomarkers/cerebrospinal fluid;Brain/ pathology;Cell Line, Tumor;Cerebellum/pathology;Female;Frontal Lobe/pathology;Gene Expression Regulation/genetics/physiology;Genetic Markers/ genetics;Hippocampus/pathology;Humans;Immunity, Innate/physiology;Insulin Resistance/physiology;Male;MicroRNAs/ cerebrospinal fluid/ genetics;Middle Aged;Neurons/physiology;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Transfection
MicroRNA regulation of homeostatic synaptic plasticity	J. E. Cohen, et al.	2011	21697510	Homeostatic mechanisms are required to control formation and maintenance of synaptic connections to maintain the general level of neural impulse activity within normal limits. How genes controlling these processes are co-coordinately regulated during homeostatic synaptic plasticity is unknown. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) exert regulatory control over mRNA stability and translation and may contribute to local and activity-dependent posttranscriptional control of synapse-associated mRNAs. However, identifying miRNAs that function through posttranscriptional gene silencing at synapses has remained elusive. Using a bioinformatics screen to identify sequence motifs enriched in the 3'UTR of rapidly destabilized mRNAs, we identified a developmentally and activity-regulated miRNA (miR-485) that controls dendritic spine number and synapse formation in an activity-dependent homeostatic manner. We find that many plasticity-associated genes contain predicted miR-485 binding sites and further identify the presynaptic protein SV2A as a target of miR-485. miR-485 negatively regulated dendritic spine density, postsynaptic density 95 (PSD-95) clustering, and surface expression of GluR2. Furthermore, miR-485 overexpression reduced spontaneous synaptic responses and transmitter release, as measured by miniature excitatory postsynaptic current (EPSC) analysis and FM 1-43 staining. SV2A knockdown mimicked the effects of miR-485, and these effects were reversed by SV2A overexpression. Moreover, 5 d of increased synaptic activity induced homeostatic changes in synaptic specializations that were blocked by a miR-485 inhibitor. Our findings reveal a role for this previously uncharacterized miRNA and the presynaptic protein SV2A in homeostatic plasticity and nervous system development, with possible implications in neurological disorders (e.g., Huntington and Alzheimer's disease), where miR-485 has been found to be dysregulated.	3' Untranslated Regions;Animals;Base Sequence;Cells, Cultured;Conserved Sequence;Dendritic Spines/metabolism;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Hippocampus/cytology/metabolism;Homeostasis;Membrane Glycoproteins/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Nerve Tissue Proteins/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/metabolism;Neuronal Plasticity/ genetics/ physiology;Presynaptic Terminals/metabolism;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional;RNA Stability;Rats;Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid
Microglial-derived miRNA let-7 and HMGB1 contribute to ethanol-induced neurotoxicity via TLR7	L. G. Coleman, Jr., et al.	2017	28118842	BACKGROUND: Toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling is emerging as an important component of neurodegeneration. TLR7 senses viral RNA and certain endogenous miRNAs to initiate innate immune responses leading to neurodegeneration. Alcoholism is associated with hippocampal degeneration, with preclinical studies linking ethanol-induced neurodegeneration with central innate immune induction and TLR activation. The endogenous miRNA let-7b binds TLR7 to cause neurodegeneration. METHODS: TLR7 and other immune markers were assessed in postmortem human hippocampal tissue that was obtained from the New South Wales Tissue Bank. Rat hippocampal-entorhinal cortex (HEC) slice culture was used to assess specific effects of ethanol on TLR7, let-7b, and microvesicles. RESULTS: We report here that hippocampal tissue from postmortem human alcoholic brains shows increased expression of TLR7 and increased microglial activation. Using HEC slice culture, we found that ethanol induces TLR7 and let-7b expression. Ethanol caused TLR7-associated neuroimmune gene induction and initiated the release let-7b in microvesicles (MVs), enhancing TLR7-mediated neurotoxicity. Further, ethanol increased let-7b binding to the danger signaling molecule high mobility group box-1 (HMGB1) in MVs, while reducing let-7 binding to classical chaperone protein argonaute (Ago2). Flow cytometric analysis of MVs from HEC media and analysis of MVs from brain cell culture lines found that microglia were the primary source of let-7b and HMGB1-containing MVs. CONCLUSIONS: Our results identify that ethanol induces neuroimmune pathology involving the release of let-7b/HMGB1 complexes in microglia-derived microvesicles. This contributes to hippocampal neurodegeneration and may play a role in the pathology of alcoholism.	Alcohol;Amphoterin;Micro-RNA;Microvesicles;Neurodegeneration;Toll-like receptor 7
Long-term exposure to black carbon, cognition and single nucleotide polymorphisms in microRNA processing genes in older men	E. Colicino, et al.	2016	26724585	INTRODUCTION: Air pollution exposure has been linked to impaired cognitive aging, but little is known about biomarkers modifying this association. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) control gene expression and neuronal programming. miRNA levels vary due to single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in genes processing miRNAs from precursor molecules. OBJECTIVES: To investigate whether SNPs in miRNA-processing genes are associated with cognition and modify the relationship between black carbon (BC), marker of traffic-related pollution, and cognitive functions. METHODS: 533 Normative Aging Study men (mean+/-SD 72+/-7years) were tested </=4 times (mean=1.7 times) using seven cognitive tests between 1995 and 2007. We tested interactions of 16 miRNA-related SNPs with 1-year average BC from a validated land-use-regression model. We used covariate-adjusted logistic regression for low (</=25) Mini-Mental tate Examination (MMSE) and mixed-effect regression for a global cognitive score combining six other tests. RESULTS: Global cognition was negatively associated with the homozygous minor variant of rs595961 AGO1 (-0.42SD; 95%CI: (-0.71, -0.13)) relative to the major variant. BC-MMSE association was stronger in heterozygous carriers of rs11077 XPO5 (OR=1.99; 95%CI: (1.39, 2.85)) and minor variant carriers of GEMIN4 rs2740348 (OR=1.34; 95%CI: (1.05, 1.7)), compared to their major variant. The BC-global-cognition association was stronger in heterozygous carriers of GEMIN4 rs4968104 (-0.10SD; 95%CI: (-0.18, -0.02)), and GEMIN4 rs910924 (-0.09SD; 95%CI: (-0.17, -0.02)) relative to the major variant. Blood miRNA expression analyses showed associations only of XPO5 rs11077 with miR-9 and miR-96. CONCLUSIONS: Carriers of particular miRNA-processing SNPs had higher susceptibility to BC in BC-cognition associations, possibly due to influences on miRNA expression.	Aged;Air Pollutants/analysis/ toxicity;Air Pollution/ adverse effects/analysis;Boston;Carbon/analysis/ toxicity;Cognition/ drug effects;Environmental Exposure/ adverse effects/analysis;Humans;Logistic Models;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Soot/analysis;Air pollution;Black carbon;Cognitive function;MicroRNA;Single nucleotide polymorphisms
Identification of miR-494 direct targets involved in senescence of human diploid fibroblasts	M. Comegna, et al.	2014	24823364	Cellular senescence is a permanent cell cycle arrest triggered by different stimuli. We recently identified up-regulation of microRNA (miR)-494 as a component of the genetic program leading to senescence of human diploid IMR90 fibroblasts. Here, we used 2-dimensional differential gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) coupled to mass spectrometry to profile protein expression changes induced by adoptive overexpression of miR-494 in IMR90 cells. miR-494 induced robust perturbation of the IMR90 proteome by significantly (P</=0.05) down-regulating a number of proteins. Combination of mass spectrometry-based identification of down-regulated proteins and bioinformatic prediction of the miR-494 binding sites on the relevant mRNAs identified 26 potential targets of miR-494. Among them, computational analysis identified 7 potential evolution-conserved miR-494 targets. Functional miR-494 binding sites were confirmed in 3'-untranslated regions (UTRs) of 4 of them [heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A3 (hnRNPA3), protein disulfide isomerase A3 (PDIA3), UV excision repair protein RAD23 homolog B (RAD23B), and synaptotagmin-binding cytoplasmic RNA-interacting protein (SYNCRIP)/heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein Q (hnRNPQ)]. Their reduced expression correlated with miR-494 up-regulation in senescent cells. RNA interference-mediated knockdown of hnRNPA3 and, to a lesser extent, RAD23B mirrored the senescent phenotype induced by miR-494 overexpression, blunting cell proliferation and causing up-regulation of SA-beta-galactosidase and DNA damage. Ectopic expression of hnRNPA3 or RAD23B slowed the appearance of the senescent phenotype induced by miR-494. Overall, these findings identify novel miR-494 direct targets that are involved in cellular senescence.	Cell Aging/ genetics/physiology;Cell Line;DNA Repair Enzymes/ biosynthesis/genetics/physiology;DNA-Binding Proteins/ biosynthesis/genetics/physiology;Electrophoresis, Gel, Two-Dimensional;Fibroblasts/ cytology;Gene Expression Profiling;HEK293 Cells;Heterogeneous-Nuclear Ribonucleoprotein Group;A-B/ biosynthesis/genetics/physiology;Heterogeneous-Nuclear Ribonucleoproteins/ biosynthesis/genetics/physiology;Humans;Mass Spectrometry;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Protein Disulfide-Isomerases/ biosynthesis/genetics/physiology;Proteome;RNA Interference;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Recombinant Fusion Proteins/biosynthesis/genetics;Transfection;Up-Regulation;DNA damage;Pcna;SA-beta-gal;microRNA;p21/WAF1;p53;proteomics
Role of inflammation and oxidative stress mediators in gliomas	A. Conti, et al.	2010	24281089	Gliomas are the most common primary brain tumors of the central nervous system. Despite relevant progress in conventional treatments, the prognosis of such tumors remains almost invariably dismal. The genesis of gliomas is a complex, multistep process that includes cellular neoplastic transformation, resistance to apoptosis, loss of control of the cell cycle, angiogenesis, and the acquisition of invasive properties. Among a number of different biomolecular events, the existence of molecular connections between inflammation and oxidative stress pathways and the development of this cancer has been demonstrated. In particular, the tumor microenvironment, which is largely orchestrated by inflammatory molecules, is an indispensable participant in the neoplastic process, promoting proliferation, survival and migration of such tumors. Proinflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1beta, and interferon-gamma, as well as chemokines and prostaglandins, are synthesized by resident brain cells and lymphocytes invading the affected brain tissue. Key mediators of cancer progression include nuclear factor-kappaB, reactive oxygen and nitrogen species, and specific microRNAs. The collective activity of these mediators is largely responsible for a pro-tumorigenic response through changes in cell proliferation, cell death, cellular senescence, DNA mutation rates, DNA methylation and angiogenesis. We provide a general overview of the connection between specific inflammation and oxidative stress pathway molecules and gliomas. The elucidation of specific effects and interactions of these factors may provide the opportunity for the identification of new target molecules leading to improved diagnosis and treatment.	
MicroRNA-410 regulated lipoprotein lipase variant rs13702 is associated with stroke incidence and modulated by diet in the randomized controlled PREDIMED trial	D. Corella, et al.	2014	24990426	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs have emerged as important epigenetic regulators in cardiovascular diseases (CVDs). Using an observational meta-analysis design, we previously characterized a gain-of-function microRNA-410 target site polymorphism (rs13702T>C) in the 3'untranslated region of the lipoprotein lipase (LPL) gene. The C allele was associated with lower triglycerides, and this association was modulated by fat intake. OBJECTIVES: We aimed to extend our findings by assessing the interaction between the rs13702 polymorphism and fat intake on triglycerides at baseline and longitudinally by using a dietary intervention design. We also examined as a primary outcome the association of this variant with CVD incidence and its modulation by the Mediterranean diet (MedDiet). DESIGN: We studied 7187 participants in the PREDIMED (Prevencion con Dieta Mediterranea) randomized trial that tested a MedDiet intervention compared with a control diet, with a median 4.8-y follow-up. LPL polymorphisms and triglycerides were determined and CVD assessed. Gene-diet interactions for triglycerides were analyzed at baseline (n = 6880) and after a 3-y intervention (n = 4131). Oxidative stress parameters were investigated in a subsample. RESULTS: The rs13702T>C polymorphism was strongly associated with lower triglycerides in C allele carriers and interacted synergistically with dietary monounsaturated (P = 0.038) and unsaturated fat intake (P = 0.037), decreasing triglycerides at baseline. By 3 y, we observed a gene-diet interaction (P = 0.025) in which the C allele was associated with a greater reduction in triglycerides after intervention with MedDiet, high in unsaturated fat. Although the polymorphism was associated with lower stroke risk (HR: 0.74; 95% CI: 0.57, 0.97; P = 0.029 per C allele), this association reached statistical significance only in the MedDiet intervention (HR: 0.58; 95% CI: 0.37, 0.91; P = 0.019 in C compared with TT carriers), not in the control group (HR: 0.94; 95% CI: 0.55, 1.59; P = 0.805). CONCLUSION: We report a novel association between a microRNA target site variant and stroke incidence, which is modulated by diet in terms of decreasing triglycerides and possibly stroke risk in rs13702 C allele carriers after a high-unsaturated fat MedDiet intervention.	3' Untranslated Regions;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Cohort Studies;Diet, Mediterranean;Female;Follow-Up Studies;Genetic Association Studies;Humans;Hypertriglyceridemia/ diet therapy/genetics/metabolism/physiopathology;Incidence;Lipoprotein Lipase/chemistry/ genetics/metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Nuts;Olive Oil;Plant Oils/therapeutic use;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Risk Factors;Spain/epidemiology;Stroke/epidemiology/etiology/ prevention & control;Survival Analysis
Epigenetic alterations in hippocampus of SAMP8 senescent mice and modulation by voluntary physical exercise	M. Cosin-Tomas, et al.	2014	24688469	The senescence-accelerated SAMP8 mouse model displays features of cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease. With the purpose of identifying potential epigenetic markers involved in aging and neurodegeneration, here we analyzed the expression of 84 mature miRNAs, the expression of histone-acetylation regulatory genes and the global histone acetylation in the hippocampus of 8-month-old SAMP8 mice, using SAMR1 mice as control. We also examined the modulation of these parameters by 8 weeks of voluntary exercise. Twenty-one miRNAs were differentially expressed between sedentary SAMP8 and SAMR1 mice and seven miRNAs were responsive to exercise in both strains. SAMP8 mice showed alterations in genes involved in protein acetylation homeostasis such as Sirt1 and Hdac6 and modulation of Hdac3 and Hdac5 gene expression by exercise. Global histone H3 acetylation levels were reduced in SAMP8 compared with SAMR1 mice and reached control levels in response to exercise. In sum, data presented here provide new candidate epigenetic markers for aging and neurodegeneration and suggest that exercise training may prevent or delay some epigenetic alterations associated with accelerated aging.	Alzheimer;Samp8;aging;exercise;microRNAs
Plasma miR-34a-5p and miR-545-3p as Early Biomarkers of Alzheimer's Disease: Potential and Limitations	M. Cosin-Tomas, et al.	2016	27631879	Plasma microRNAs (miRNAs) have been proposed as potential biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we explored their use as early sensors of the preclinical phase of the disease, when brain pathology is being developed and no cognitive loss is detected. For this purpose, we analyzed a set of ten mature plasma miRNAs in symptomatic patients with AD from a cohort that also included healthy controls (HC) and patients with preclinical Alzheimer's disease (PAD) (cohort 1). Plasmas from subjects with Parkinson's disease (PD) were used to control for disease specificity. We found that miR-15b-5p, miR-34a-5p, miR-142-3p, and miR-545-3p levels significantly distinguished AD from PD and HC subjects. We next examined the expression of these four miRNAs in plasma from subjects with PAD. Among these, miR-34a-5p and miR-545-3p presented good diagnostic accuracy to distinguish both AD and PAD from HC subjects, according to the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. Both miRNAs also demonstrated a significant positive correlation with Abeta1-42 levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Taking into account the clinical potential of these findings, we decided to validate the diagnostic accuracy of miR-34a-5p and miR-545-3p in plasma samples from an independent cohort (cohort 2), in which we did not observe the alterations described by us and others in AD and PAD samples. Although miR-34a-5p and miR-545-3p might be promising early biomarker candidates for AD, our study highlights possible sources of variability in miRNA analysis across hospitals, which currently prevents their use as reliable clinical tools.	Alzheimer's disease;Plasma biomarker;Preclinical;miR-34a-5p;miR-545-3p;miRNA
Non-coding RNA and pseudogenes in neurodegenerative diseases: "The (un)Usual Suspects"	V. Costa, et al.	2012	23118739	Neurodegenerative disorders and cancer are severe diseases threatening human health. The glaring differences between neurons and cancer cells mask the processes involved in their pathogenesis. Defects in cell cycle, DNA repair, and cell differentiation can determine unlimited proliferation in cancer, or conversely, compromise neuronal plasticity, leading to cell death and neurodegeneration. Alteration in regulatory networks affecting gene expression contribute to human diseases onset, including neurodegenerative disorders, and deregulation of non-coding RNAs - particularly microRNAs (miRNAs) - is supposed to have a significant impact. Recently, competitive endogenous RNAs (ceRNAs) - acting as sponges - have been identified in cancer, indicating a new and intricate regulatory network. Given that neurodegenerative disorders and cancer share altered genes and pathways, and considering the emerging role of miRNAs in neurogenesis, we hypothesize ceRNAs may be implicated in neurodegenerative diseases. Here we propose, and computationally predict, such regulatory mechanism may be shared between the diseases. It is predictable that similar regulation occurs in other complex diseases, and further investigation is needed.	cancer;ceRNA;miRNA;neurodegeneration;pseudogenes
Bacterial genotoxin colibactin promotes colon tumour growth by inducing a senescence-associated secretory phenotype	A. Cougnoux, et al.	2014	24658599	BACKGROUND: Escherichia coli strains harbouring the pks island (pks+ E. coli) are often seen in human colorectal tumours and have a carcinogenic effect independent of inflammation in an AOM/IL-10(-/-) (azoxymethane/interleukin) mouse model. OBJECTIVE: To investigate the mechanism sustaining pks+ E. coli-induced carcinogenesis. METHOD: Underlying cell processes were investigated in vitro and in vivo (xenograft model) using intestinal epithelial cells infected by pks+ E. coli or by an isogenic mutant defective for pks (pks- E. coli). The results were supported by data obtained from an AOM/DSS (azoxymethane/dextran sodium sulphate) colon cancer mouse model and from human colon cancer biopsy specimens colonised by pks+ E. coli or pks- E. coli. RESULTS: Colibactin-producing E. coli enhanced tumour growth in both xenograft and AOM/DSS models. Growth was sustained by cellular senescence (a direct consequence of small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO)-conjugated p53 accumulation), which was accompanied by the production of hepatocyte growth factor (HGF). The underlying mechanisms involve microRNA-20a-5p, which targets SENP1, a key protein regulating p53 deSUMOylation. These results are consistent with the expression of SENP1, microRNA-20a-5p, HGF and phosphorylation of HGF receptor found in human and mouse colon cancers colonised by pks+ E. coli. CONCLUSION: These data reveal a new paradigm for carcinogenesis, in which colibactin-induced senescence has an important role.	Animals;Carcinogenesis/ metabolism;Cell Aging;Colonic Neoplasms/microbiology/pathology;Endopeptidases/metabolism;Escherichia coli/genetics/pathogenicity;Hepatocyte Growth Factor/metabolism;Humans;Mice;Mutagens;Mutation;Neoplasms, Experimental;Nuclear Proteins/metabolism;Peptides/ genetics;Polyketides;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-met;Cell Proliferation;Colon Carcinogenesis;DNA Damage;E. Coli;Gene Expression
Polymorphisms Falling Within Putative miRNA Target Sites in the 3'UTR Region of SIRT2 and DRD2 Genes Are Correlated With Human Longevity	P. Crocco, et al.	2016	25934993	Many studies have suggested that individual differences in aging phenotypes may be associated to polymorphisms affecting gene regulation. As single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the 3'-untranslated regions (3'UTR) targeted by microRNAs (miRNAs) can alter the strength of miRNA binding (and, consequently, the regulation of target genes), we wondered whether these SNPs (known as miRSNPs) affect the individual chance to become long-lived. Thus, we estimated the effect of miRSNPs falling in the 3'-untranslated regions of 140 aging-related genes on the DNA/miRNA bond. The 24 miRSNPs with the highest difference of binding energy between the two alleles were then investigated for their association with longevity by case-control analysis. Two SNPs,SIRT2-rs45592833 G/T and DRD2-rs6276 A/G, provided a significant association with human longevity, also after correcting for multiple comparisons. For both SNPs, the minor allele was associated with a significantly decreased chance to became long-lived in an allele dose-dependent manner (p= 1.090 x 10(-6)and 1.964 x 10(-4)forSIRT2 and DRD2, respectively). The results indicate that the individual aging phenotype may be affected by the variability of specific miRNA targeted regions, as shown for SIRT2 and DRD2, and may suggest further studies to analyze the variability of gene expression regulation as a modulator of aging phenotypes.	3' Untranslated Regions/ genetics;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Case-Control Studies;Female;Genotype;Humans;Logistic Models;Longevity/ genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide/ genetics;Receptors, Dopamine D2/ genetics;Sirtuin 2/ genetics;Drd2;Longevity;Sirt2;Snp;miRNA
Lithium/Valproic acid combination and L-glutamate induce similar pattern of changes in the expression of miR-30a-5p in SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells	N. Croce, et al.	2014	25149854	It has been proposed that Lithium (Li) and valproic acid (VPA) may be useful to treat neurodegenerative disorders because they protect neurons against excitotoxic insults both in vitro and in vivo models. Moreover, these two drugs may exert their effects by regulating microRNAs (miRNAs), single-stranded and non-coding RNAs able to control gene expression. A subset of the miR-30a family (miR-30a-5p) is involved in the fine-tuning of neuroprotective molecules such as the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Thus, there is the possibility that Li and VPA may alter miR-30a-5p and in turn affect BDNF production. However, data on miR-30a-5p levels in presence of Li and VPA and/or a neurotoxic insult are not yet available. Thus, the aim of this study was to investigate whether exposure to Li and VPA may influence miR-30a-5p expression in an in vitro model of neurodegeneration generated by the exposure of a human neuroblastoma cell line (SH-SY5Y) to neurotoxic concentration of L-glutamate. The results showed that both L-glutamate and Li-VPA caused an increase in miR-30a-5p expression at 24 h of incubation and a decrease at 48 h. Moreover, Li-VPA alone caused a decrease in miR-30a-5p expression also in cells not exposed to the toxic effect of glutamate. These data indicate that changes in miR-30a-5p expression induced by Li-VPA are not related to the cytoprotective action of BDNF and suggest alternative function for this miR. These findings also indicate that miRNA changes are present in in vitro models of neurodegeneration, although the significance of these changes warrants further investigation.	Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor/biosynthesis/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Drug Synergism;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;Glutamic Acid/ toxicity;Humans;In Vitro Techniques;Lithium/administration & dosage/ pharmacology;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics/physiology;Nerve Degeneration/chemically induced;Neuroblastoma/pathology;Neurons/ drug effects/metabolism;Neuroprotective Agents/ pharmacology;Neurotoxins/ toxicity;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Up-Regulation/drug effects;Valproic Acid/administration & dosage/ pharmacology
NPY modulates miR-30a-5p and BDNF in opposite direction in an in vitro model of Alzheimer disease: a possible role in neuroprotection?	N. Croce, et al.	2013	23358924	Using in vitro models of Alzheimer's disease (AD), we found that the toxic effects of amyloid beta 25-35 (Abeta(25-35)) on the neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) were counteracted by pre-incubation with neuropeptide Y (NPY), a neuropeptide expressed within the central nervous system. Nonetheless, the mechanism of action of NPY on BDNF neuronal production in the presence of Abeta is not known. BDNF expression might be directly regulated by microRNA (miRs), small non-coding DNA fragments that regulate the expression of target genes. Thus, there is the possibility that miRs alterations are present in AD-affected neurons and that NPY influences miR expression. To test this hypothesis, we exposed NPY-pretreated primary rat cortical neurons to Abeta(25-35) and measured miR-30a-5p (a member of the miR-30a family involved in BDNF tuning expression) and BDNF mRNA and protein expression after 24 and 48 h. Our results demonstrated that pre-treatment with NPY decreased miR-30a-5p expression and increased BDNF mRNA and protein expression at 24 and 48 h of incubation with Abeta. Therefore, this study demonstrates that NPY modulates BDNF and its regulating microRNA miR-30a-5p in opposite direction with a mechanism that possibly contributes to the neuroprotective effect of NPY in rat cortical neurons exposed to Abeta.	Alzheimer Disease/ drug therapy/genetics/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ metabolism/pharmacology;Animals;Base Sequence;Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor/genetics/ metabolism;Cells, Cultured;Cerebellar Cortex/cytology/embryology;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Neurons/drug effects/metabolism;Neuropeptide Y/ pharmacology;Neuroprotective Agents/ pharmacology;Peptide Fragments/ metabolism/pharmacology;Rats;Rats, Wistar
miR-300 mediates Bmi1 function and regulates differentiation in primitive cardiac progenitors	F. M. Cruz, et al.	2015	26512961	B lymphoma Mo-MLV insertion region 1 (Bmi1) is a polycomb-family transcriptional factor critical for self-renewal in many adult stem cells and human neoplasia. We sought to identify microRNAs regulated by Bmi1 that could play a role in multipotent cardiac progenitor cell (CPC) decisions. We found that miR-300, a poorly characterized microRNA mapping in the Dlk1-Dio3 microRNA cluster, was positively regulated by Bmi1 in CPCs. Forced expression of miR-300 in CPCs promoted an improved stemness signature with a significant increase in Oct4 levels, a reduction in senescence progression and an enhanced proliferative status via p19 activation and inhibition of p16 accumulation. Endothelial and cardiogenic differentiation were clearly compromised by sustained miR-300 expression. Additionally, RNA and protein analysis revealed a significant reduction in key cardiac transcription factors, including Nkx2.5 and Tbx5. Collectively, these results suggest that some functions attributed to Bmi1 are due to induction of miR-300, which decreases the cardiogenic differentiation potential of multipotent CPCs in vitro and promotes self-renewal.	Animals;Apoptosis;Cell Differentiation/ genetics;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism/ physiology;Polycomb Repressive Complex 1/genetics/metabolism/ physiology;Proto-Oncogene Proteins/genetics/metabolism/ physiology;Stem Cells/metabolism
Caloric restriction confers persistent anti-oxidative, pro-angiogenic, and anti-inflammatory effects and promotes anti-aging miRNA expression profile in cerebromicrovascular endothelial cells of aged rats	A. Csiszar, et al.	2014	24906921	In rodents, moderate caloric restriction (CR) without malnutrition exerts significant cerebrovascular protective effects, improving cortical microvascular density and endothelium-dependent vasodilation, but the underlying cellular mechanisms remain elusive. To elucidate the persisting effects of CR on cerebromicrovascular endothelial cells (CMVECs), primary CMVECs were isolated from young (3 mo old) and aged (24 mo old) ad libitum-fed and aged CR F344xBN rats. We found an age-related increase in cellular and mitochondrial oxidative stress, which is prevented by CR. Expression and transcriptional activity of Nrf2 are both significantly reduced in aged CMVECs, whereas CR prevents age-related Nrf2 dysfunction. Expression of miR-144 was upregulated in aged CMVECs, and overexpression of miR-144 significantly decreased expression of Nrf2 in cells derived from both young animals and aged CR rats. Overexpression of a miR-144 antagomir in aged CMVECs significantly decreases expression of miR-144 and upregulates Nrf2. We found that CR prevents age-related impairment of angiogenic processes, including cell proliferation, adhesion to collagen, and formation of capillary-like structures and inhibits apoptosis in CMVECs. CR also exerts significant anti-inflammatory effects, preventing age-related increases in the transcriptional activity of NF-kappaB and age-associated pro-inflammatory shift in the endothelial secretome. Characterization of CR-induced changes in miRNA expression suggests that they likely affect several critical functions in endothelial cell homeostasis. The predicted regulatory effects of CR-related differentially expressed miRNAs in aged CMVECs are consistent with the anti-aging endothelial effects of CR observed in vivo. Collectively, we find that CR confers persisting anti-oxidative, pro-angiogenic, and anti-inflammatory cellular effects, preserving a youthful phenotype in rat cerebromicrovascular endothelial cells, suggesting that through these effects CR may improve cerebrovascular function and prevent vascular cognitive impairment.	Age Factors;Aging/genetics/immunology/ metabolism;Animals;Brain/ blood supply;Caloric Restriction;Cells, Cultured;Crosses, Genetic;Endothelial Cells/immunology/ metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Inflammation/genetics/immunology/metabolism/ prevention & control;Inflammation Mediators/metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Microvessels/immunology/ metabolism;Mitochondria/metabolism;NF-E2-Related Factor 2/genetics/metabolism;NF-kappa B/genetics/metabolism;Neovascularization, Physiologic;Oxidative Stress;Phenotype;Rats;Rats, Inbred BN;Rats, Inbred F344;Transcription, Genetic;Transfection;aging;angiogenesis;dietary restriction;senescence
Dicer loss in striatal neurons produces behavioral and neuroanatomical phenotypes in the absence of neurodegeneration	T. L. Cuellar, et al.	2008	18385371	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs that can act to repress target mRNAs by suppressing translation and/or reducing mRNA stability. Although it is clear that miRNAs and Dicer, an RNase III enzyme that is central to the production of mature miRNAs, have a role in the early development of neurons, their roles in the postmitotic neuron in vivo are largely unknown. To determine the roles of Dicer in neurons, we ablated Dicer in dopaminoceptive neurons. Mice that have lost Dicer in these cells display a range of phenotypes including ataxia, front and hind limb clasping, reduced brain size, and smaller neurons. Surprisingly, dopaminoceptive neurons without Dicer survive over the life of the animal. The lack of profound cell death contrasts with other mouse models in which Dicer has been ablated. These studies highlight the complicated nature of Dicer ablation in the brain and provide a useful mouse model for studying dopaminoceptive neuron function.	Animals;Behavior, Animal;Corpus Striatum/ cytology;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/ deficiency;Disease Models, Animal;Dopamine;Endoribonucleases/ deficiency;Mice;Nerve Degeneration;Neuroanatomy;Neurons;Phenotype;Ribonuclease III
Metformin lowers the threshold for stress-induced senescence: a role for the microRNA-200 family and miR-205	S. Cufi, et al.	2012	22356767	We have tested the hypothesis that the antidiabetic biguanide metformin can be used to manipulate the threshold for stress-induced senescence (SIS), thus accelerating the onset of cancer-protective cellular senescence in response to oncogenic stimuli. Using senescence-prone murine embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs), we assessed whether metformin treatment modified the senescence phenotype that is activated in response to DNA damaging inducers. Metformin significantly enhanced the number of MEFs entering a senescent stage in response to doxorubicin, an anthracycline that induces cell senescence by activating DNA damage signaling pathways (e.g., ATM/ATR) in a reactive oxygen species (ROS)-dependent manner. Using WI-38 and BJ-1 human diploid fibroblasts (HDFs), we explored whether metformin supplementation throughout their entire replicative lifespan may promote the early appearance of the biomarkers of replicative senescence. Chronic metformin significantly reduced HDFs' lifespan by accelerating both the loss of replicative potential and the acquisition of replicative senescence-related biomarkers (e.g., enlarged and flattened cell shapes, loss of arrayed arrangement, accumulation of intracellular and extracellular debris and SA-beta-gal-positive staining). Metformin functioned as a bona fide stressful agent, inducing monotonic, dose-dependent, SIS-like responses in BJ-1 HDFs, which are highly resistant to ROS-induced premature senescence. Metformin-induced SIS in BJ-1 fibroblasts was accompanied by the striking activation of several microRNAs belonging to the miR-200s family (miR-200a, miR-141 and miR429) and miR-205, thus mimicking a recently described ability of ROS to chemosensitize cancer cells by specifically upregulating anti-EMT (epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition) miR-200s. Because the unlimited proliferative potential of stem cells results from their metabolic refractoriness to SIS, we finally tested if metformin treatment could circumvent the stress (e.g., ROS)-resistant phenotype of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). Metformin treatment drastically reduced both the number and the size of iPSC colonies and notably diminished the staining of the pluripotency marker alkaline phosphatase. Our current findings, altogether, reveal for the first time that metformin can efficiently lower the threshold for SIS to generate an "stressed" cell phenotype that becomes pre-sensitized to oncogenic-like stimuli, including DNA damaging, proliferative and/or stemness inducers.	Animals;Biomarkers/metabolism;Cell Aging/ drug effects;Cell Proliferation/drug effects;DNA Damage;Doxorubicin/pharmacology;Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition;Fibroblasts/drug effects/metabolism;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells/drug effects/metabolism;Metformin/ pharmacology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Oxidative Stress;Phenotype;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Staining and Labeling
miR-34a Inhibits Lung Fibrosis by Inducing Lung Fibroblast Senescence	H. Cui, et al.	2017	27635790	Cellular senescence has been implicated in diverse pathologies. However, there is conflicting evidence regarding the role of this process in tissue fibrosis. Although dysregulation of microRNAs is a key mechanism in the pathogenesis of lung fibrosis, it is unclear whether microRNAs function by regulating cellular senescence in the disease. In this study, we found that miR-34a demonstrated greater expression in the lungs of patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and in mice with experimental pulmonary fibrosis, with its primary localization in lung fibroblasts. More importantly, miR-34a was up-regulated significantly in both human and mouse lung myofibroblasts. We found that mice with miR-34a ablation developed more severe pulmonary fibrosis than did wild-type animals after fibrotic lung injury. Mechanistically, we found that miR-34a induced a senescent phenotype in lung fibroblasts because this microRNA increased senescence-associated beta-galactosidase activity, enhanced expression of senescence markers, and decreased cell proliferative capacities. Consistently, we found that primary lung fibroblasts from fibrotic lungs of miR-34a-deficient mice had a diminished senescent phenotype and enhanced resistance to apoptosis as compared with those from wild-type animals. We also identified multiple miR-34a targets that likely mediated its activities in inducing senescence in lung fibroblasts. In conclusion, our data suggest that miR-34a functions through a negative feedback mechanism to restrain fibrotic response in the lungs by promoting senescence of pulmonary fibroblasts.	Animals;Apoptosis/drug effects;Cell Aging/drug effects/genetics;Cell Differentiation/drug effects;Fibroblasts/drug effects/metabolism/ pathology;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Humans;Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis/ genetics/ pathology;Lung/ pathology;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Myofibroblasts/metabolism/pathology;Transforming Growth Factor beta1/pharmacology;Up-Regulation/drug effects/genetics;cellular senescence;lung fibrosis;microRNA;pulmonary fibroblast
miR-34a promotes fibrosis in aged lungs by inducing alveolarepithelial dysfunctions	H. Cui, et al.	2017	27979858	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a well-known age-related disease. However, much less recognized has been the aging associated pathogenesis of this disorder. As we and others previously showed that dysregulation of micro-RNAs (miRNAs) was an important mechanism involved in pulmonary fibrosis, the role of these molecules in this pathology in the aged population has not been investigated (Cushing L, Kuang PP, Qian J, Shao F, Wu J, Little F, Thannickal VJ, Cardoso WV, Lu J. Am J Respir Cell Mol Biol 45: 287-294, 2011; Liu G, Friggeri A, Yang Y, Milosevic J, Ding Q, Thannickal VJ, Kaminski N, Abraham E. J Exp Med 207: 1589-1597, 2010; Pandit KV, Corcoran D, Yousef H, Yarlagadda M, Tzouvelekis A, Gibson KF, Konishi K, Yousem SA, Singh M, Handley D, Richards T, Selman M, Watkins SC, Pardo A, Ben-Yehudah A, Bouros D, Eickelberg O, Ray P, Benos PV, Kaminski N. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 182: 220-229, 2010). In this study, by using a lung fibrosis model established in old mice, we found that ablation of miR-34a protected aged animals from developing experimental lung fibrosis. miR-34a was upregulated in lung epithelial cells, but not in lung fibroblasts of aged mice, and miR-34a expression was further increased in epithelial cells of the fibrotic lungs of these old animals. We found that miR-34a induced dysfunctions in alveolar epithelial cells (AECs), as evidenced by increased cellular senescence and apoptosis and mitochondrial aberrations. More importantly, these abnormalities were attenuated in AECs of the fibrotic lungs of aged miR-34a-/- mice. We found that miR-34a targeted Sirt1, a master anti-aging regulator, and two key cell cycle modulators, E2F3 and cyclin E2, in lung epithelial cells, and the repression of these targets was relieved in miR-34a-deficient AECs. In summary, our data suggest that elevated AEC miR-34a plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of pulmonary fibrosis in the aged population. Our study also indicates miR-34a to be a more precise miRNA target for treating this disease that overwhelmingly affects people of advanced age.	aging;alveolar epithelial cell;apoptosis;lung fibrosis;micro-RNA;senescence
Differential regulation of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1) and IRAK-2 by microRNA-146a and NF-kappaB in stressed human astroglial cells and in Alzheimer disease	J. G. Cui, et al.	2010	20937840	Specific microRNAs (miRNAs), small non-coding RNAs that support homeostatic gene expression, are significantly altered in abundance in human neurological disorders. In monocytes, increased expression of an NF-kappaB-regulated miRNA-146a down-regulates expression of the interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1), an essential component of Toll-like/IL-1 receptor signaling. Here we extend those observations to the hippocampus and neocortex of Alzheimer disease (AD) brain and to stressed human astroglial (HAG) cells in primary culture. In 66 control and AD samples we note a significant up-regulation of miRNA-146a coupled to down-regulation of IRAK-1 and a compensatory up-regulation of IRAK-2. Using miRNA-146a-, IRAK-1-, or IRAK-2 promoter-luciferase reporter constructs, we observe decreases in IRAK-1 and increases in miRNA-146a and IRAK-2 expression in interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and amyloid-beta-42 (Abeta42) peptide-stressed HAG cells. NF-kappaB-mediated transcriptional control of human IRAK-2 was localized to between -119 and +12 bp of the immediate IRAK-2 promoter. The NF-kappaB inhibitors curcumin, pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate or CAY10512 abrogated both IRAK-2 and miRNA-146a expression, whereas IRAK-1 was up-regulated. Incubation of a protected antisense miRNA-146a was found to inhibit miRNA-146a and restore IRAK-1, whereas IRAK-2 remained unaffected. These data suggest a significantly independent regulation of IRAK-1 and IRAK-2 in AD and in IL-1beta+Abeta42 peptide-stressed HAG cells and that an inducible, NF-kappaB-sensitive, miRNA-146a-mediated down-regulation of IRAK-1 coupled to an NF-kappaB-induced up-regulation of IRAK-2 expression drives an extensively sustained inflammatory response. The interactive signaling of NF-kappaB and miRNA-146a further illustrate interplay between inducible transcription factors and pro-inflammatory miRNAs that regulate brain IRAK expression. The combinatorial use of NF-kappaB inhibitors with miRNA-146a or antisense miRNA-146a may have potential as a bi-pronged therapeutic strategy directed against IRAK-2-driven pathogenic signaling.	Alzheimer Disease/ metabolism;Astrocytes/ metabolism;Base Sequence;Brain/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic;Humans;Inflammation;Interleukin-1 Receptor-Associated Kinases/ biosynthesis;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;NF-kappa B/ metabolism;Promoter Regions, Genetic;Signal Transduction;Toll-Like Receptors/metabolism
Micro-RNA-128 (miRNA-128) down-regulation in glioblastoma targets ARP5 (ANGPTL6), Bmi-1 and E2F-3a, key regulators of brain cell proliferation	J. G. Cui, et al.	2010	19941032	High density micro-RNA (miRNA) arrays, fluorescent-reporter miRNA assay and Northern miRNA dot-blot analysis show that a brain-enriched miRNA-128 is significantly down-regulated in glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) and in GBM cell lines when compared to age-matched controls. The down-regulation of miRNA-128 was found to inversely correlate with WHO tumor grade. Three bioinformatics-verified miRNA-128 targets, angiopoietin-related growth factor protein 5 (ARP5; ANGPTL6), a transcription suppressor that promotes stem cell renewal and inhibits the expression of known tumor suppressor genes involved in senescence and differentiation, Bmi-1, and a transcription factor critical for the control of cell-cycle progression, E2F-3a, were found to be up-regulated. Addition of exogenous miRNA-128 to CRL-1690 and CRL-2610 GBM cell lines (a) restored 'homeostatic' ARP5 (ANGPTL6), Bmi-1 and E2F-3a expression, and (b) significantly decreased the proliferation of CRL-1690 and CRL-2610 cell lines. Our data suggests that down-regulation of miRNA-128 may contribute to glioma and GBM, in part, by coordinately up-regulating ARP5 (ANGPTL6), Bmi-1 and E2F-3a, resulting in the proliferation of undifferentiated GBM cells.	Adult;Angiopoietins/genetics/ metabolism;Brain/ pathology;Brain Neoplasms/ pathology;Cell Proliferation/drug effects;Computational Biology/methods;Down-Regulation/drug effects/ physiology;E2F3 Transcription Factor/genetics/ metabolism;Female;Glioblastoma/ pathology;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism/pharmacology;Middle Aged;Nuclear Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Polycomb Repressive Complex 1;Proto-Oncogene Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Repressor Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Transfection/methods
A functional polymorphism in the promoter region of microRNA-146a is associated with the risk of Alzheimer disease and the rate of cognitive decline in patients	L. Cui, et al.	2014	24586483	miR146a is well known for its regulatory role in the immune response and inflammation. Recent studies have demonstrated the links between miR146a and Alzheimer disease (AD) and suggested that miR146a may be involved in neuroinflammation and the metabolism of amyloid-beta (Abeta), which are critical events in AD pathology. Although genetic studies have focused on the association between the miR146a gene and susceptibility to several diseases, no association study of miR146a variability with AD has been conducted. In this report, we performed a case-control association study to analyze the genotype and allele distributions of the miR146a, rs2910464 and rs57095329 polymorphisms in a Chinese population consisting of 292 AD cases and 300 healthy controls. We found a significant difference in the genotypes and allele frequencies of rs57095329 between the AD cases and the controls (p = 0.0147 and p = 0.0184, respectively), where the AA genotype of rs57095329 was associated with an increased risk of AD as well the cognitive decline in AD patients. Additionally, the AA genotype of rs57095329 exhibited significantly higher miR146a expression than the GG+GA genotypes of rs2910164 in the peripheral blood cells (PBMCs) of healthy individuals and had a stronger effect on the production of IL-6 and IL-1beta when the cells were stimulated with LPS. Our data provide preliminary evidence that the rs57095329 polymorphism in the miR146a promoter is involved in the genetic susceptibility to AD, and this risk AA genotype may increase the expression of miR146a and influence certain proinflammatory cytokines, thus playing a role in the pathogenesis of AD.	Aged;Alleles;Alzheimer Disease;Asian Continental Ancestry Group/ genetics;Case-Control Studies;Cognition;Cognition Disorders/ genetics;Female;Gene Frequency/genetics;Genetic Predisposition to Disease/ genetics;Genotype;Humans;Interleukin-1beta/genetics;Interleukin-6/genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide/ genetics;Promoter Regions, Genetic/ genetics;Risk
Overexpression of microRNA-634 suppresses survival and matrix synthesis of human osteoarthritis chondrocytes by targeting PIK3R1	X. Cui, et al.	2016	26972586	Osteoarthritis (OA) is a degenerative disease characterized by deterioration of articular cartilage. Recent studies have demonstrated the importance of some microRNAs in cartilage damage. The aim of this study was to identify and characterize the expression of microRNA-634 (miR-634) in normal and OA chondrocytes, and to determine its role in OA pathogenesis. Human normal and OA chondrocytes obtained from patients were cultured in vitro. Transfection with miR-634 mimic or inhibitor was employed to investigate the effect of miR-634 on chondrocyte survival and matrix synthesis, and to identify miR-634 target. The results indicated that miR-634 was expressed at lower level in high grade OA chondrocyte compared with normal chondrocytes. Overexpression of miR-634 could inhibit cell survival and matrix synthesis in high grade OA chondrocytes. Furthermore, miR-634 targeted PIK3R1 gene that encodes the regulatory subunit 1 of class I PI3K (p85alpha) and exerted its inhibitory effect on the phosphorylation of Akt, mTOR, and S6 signal molecules in high grade OA chondrocytes. Therefore, the data suggested that miR-634 could suppress survival and matrix synthesis of high grade OA chondrocytes through targeting PIK3R1 gene to modulate the PI3K/Akt/S6 and PI3K/Akt/mTOR/S6 axes, with important implication for validating miR-634 as a potential target for OA therapy.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;ADAMTS5 Protein/genetics/metabolism;Adult;Aged;Aggrecans/genetics/metabolism;Blotting, Western;Cell Survival/genetics;Cells, Cultured;Chondrocytes/ metabolism;Extracellular Matrix Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Female;Gene Expression;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Male;Matrix Metalloproteinase 13/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Osteoarthritis/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases/ genetics/metabolism;Phosphorylation;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases/metabolism
Tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and miRNA expression in frontal and temporal neocortex in Alzheimer's disease and the effect of TNF-alpha on miRNA expression in vitro	D. Culpan, et al.	2011	21686130	Micro-RNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNAs capable of regulating gene expression at the translational level. A number of studies have suggested that the expression of several miRNAs is changed in AD. The pro-inflammatory cytokine tumour necrosis factor-a (TNF-alpha) is increased in serum and CSF in AD. We measured the expression of TNFA and several AD candidate gene-associated miRNAs (let7a/b, miR-128a/b, miR-27a/b, miR-155) in frontal and temporal neocortex from AD and control brains. The expression of these miRNAs was also measured after incubating non-differentiated (NDC) and retinoic acid -differentiated (DC) SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells with TNF-alpha. TNFA expression was similar in AD and control brains but miR-128a/b levels were significantly reduced in the temporal cortex and miR-128b in the frontal cortex in AD. MiRNA levels did not correlate with TNFA expression in brain tissue but exposure of NDC and DC SH-SY5Y cells to TNF-alpha caused a variable dose-dependent response in the level of some of the miRNAs studied. Our brain tissue findings argue against a role for TNF-alpha in influencing the expression of these miRNAs in AD.	Alzheimer's disease;SH-SY5Y cells;Tumour necrosis factor-a;microRNA
Exploring New Inflammatory Biomarkers and Pathways during LPS-Induced M1 Polarization	C. Cunha, et al.	2016	28096568	Identification of mediators triggering microglia activation and transference of noncoding microRNA (miRNA) into exosomes are critical to dissect the mechanisms underlying neurodegeneration. We used lipopolysaccharide- (LPS-) induced N9 microglia activation to explore new biomarkers/signaling pathways and to identify inflammatory miRNA (inflamma-miR) in cells and their derived exosomes. Upregulation of iNOS and MHC-II (M1-markers) and downregulation of arginase 1, FIZZ1 (M2-markers), and CX3CR1 (M0/M2 polarization) confirmed the switch of N9 LPS-treated cells into the M1 phenotype, as described for macrophages/microglia. Cells showed increased proliferation, activated TLR4/TLR2/NF-kappaB pathway, and enhanced phagocytosis, further corroborated by upregulated MFG-E8. We found NLRP3-inflammasome activation in these cells, probably accounting for the increased extracellular content of the cytokine HMGB1 and of the MMP-9 we have observed. We demonstrate for the first time that the inflamma-miR profiling (upregulated miR-155 and miR-146a plus downregulated miR-124) in M1 polarized N9 cells, noticed by others in activated macrophages/microglia, was replicated in their derived exosomes, likely regulating the inflammatory response of recipient cells and dissemination processes. Data show that LPS-treated N9 cells behave like M1 polarized microglia/macrophages, while providing new targets for drug discovery. In particular, the study yields novel insights into the exosomal circulating miRNA during neuroinflammation important for emerging therapeutic approaches targeting microglia activation.	
Cell-secreted vesicles in equine ovarian follicular fluid contain miRNAs and proteins: a possible new form of cell communication within the ovarian follicle	J. C. da Silveira, et al.	2012	22116803	Proper cell communication within the ovarian follicle is critical for the growth and maturation of a healthy oocyte that can be fertilized and develop into an embryo. Cell communication within the follicle involves many signaling molecules and is affected by maternal age. Recent studies indicate that cell communication can be mediated through secretion and uptake of small membrane-enclosed vesicles. The goals of this study were to 1) identify cell-secreted vesicles (microvesicles and exosomes) containing miRNAs and proteins within ovarian follicular fluid and 2) determine if miRNA level differs in exosomes isolated from follicular fluid in young compared to old mares. We demonstrate the presence of vesicles resembling microvesicles and exosomes in ovarian follicular fluid using transmission electron microscopy and CD63-positive and RNA containing vesicles using flow cytometry. Moreover, proteomics analysis reveals that follicular fluid-isolated exosomes contain both known exosomal proteins and proteins not previously reported in isolated exosomes. MicroRNAs were detected in microvesicle and exosomes preparations isolated from follicular fluid by real-time PCR analysis. Uptake of fluorescent-labeled microvesicles by granulosa cells was examined using in vitro and in vivo approaches. MicroRNA expression profiling reveals that miRNAs in microvesicle and exosome preparations isolated from follicular fluid also are present within surrounding granulosa and cumulus cells. These studies revealed that cell communication within the mammalian ovarian follicle may involve transfer of bioactive material by microvesicles and exosomes. Finally, miRNAs present in exosomes from ovarian follicular fluid varied with the age of the mare, and a number of different miRNAs were detected in young vs. old mare follicular fluid.	Aging/metabolism;Animals;Cell Communication/ physiology;Exosomes/ metabolism/ultrastructure;Female;Flow Cytometry;Follicular Fluid/ cytology;Horses;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Microscopy, Electron, Transmission;Models, Animal;Oogenesis;Ovarian Follicle/cytology/ physiology;Ovary/ cytology;Proteins/ metabolism;Secretory Vesicles/ metabolism/ultrastructure
A genetic variant in miRNA binding site of glutamate receptor 4, metabotropic (GRM4) is associated with increased risk of major depressive disorder	T. Dadkhah, et al.	2017	27792966	BACKGROUND: Glutamate receptor 4, metabotropic (GRM4) expression is increased in the brain of patients with depression. The poorly conserved miR-1202 is downregulated in depression and is negatively correlated with GRM4. A variation located at the 3' UTR of the GRM4 gene may influence the interaction between miR-1202 and GRM4. The aim of this study was to determine the possible association between GRM4 3' UTR variant (rs2229901) and major depressive disorder (MDD). METHODS: A total of 500 subjects comprising 250 patients with MDD and 250 healthy controls were included in our study. The single nucleotide polymorphism rs2229901 was genotyped using PCR-RFLP method. Allele and genotype frequencies were compared between the two groups using chi-square test and logistic regression models. The impact of rs2229901 on GRM4/miR-1202 hybrid stability and local GRM4-3' UTR secondary structure were assessed using RNAsnp program. RESULTS: Genotype and allele frequency of rs2229901were significantly different in patients with MDD comparing to the control group (p=0.018 and p=0.007, respectively). The G-allele was more prevalent among patients with MDD. The rs2229901 variant was predicted to be structure-disruptive. LIMITATIONS: The relatively small sample size and lack of functional experiments are the major limitations of this study. CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that rs2229901 is associated with MDD risk. This variant probably impacts the interaction between GRM4 and miR-1202. Functional studies are needed to clarify the possible mechanisms by which rs2229901 influences MDD risk.	Depression;Grm4;MiR-1202;Single nucleotide polymorphism
miR-570 interacts with mitochondrial ATPase subunit g (ATP5L) encoding mRNA in stored platelets	N. Dahiya, et al.	2017	27561077	Loss of platelet quality during ex vivo storage is a major concern in the transfusion medicine field and it has been known that platelet mitochondrial dysfunction is associated with storage time. In the last decade, small noncoding RNAs also known as microRNAs (miRNAs) have been reported to regulate key cellular processes through their target sequence interactions with selected mRNAs. In this study, we focused on understanding the mechanisms of platelet mitochondrial dysfunction during storage through miRNA regulation of mRNAs. RNA was isolated from day 0, day 5, and day 9 of stored human leukocyte-depleted platelets and subjected to differential miRNA and mRNA profiling. The miRNA profiling identified several miRNAs at low levels including a set of 12 different miR-548 family members (miR-548a-3p, miR-548aa, miR-548x, miR-548ac, miR-548c-3p, miR-603, miR-548aj, miR-548ae, miR-548z, miR-548u, miR-548al, and miR-570-3p). The mRNA profiling identified, among many, the mitochondrial ATP synthase subunit g (ATP5L) mRNA at high levels during storage. Target Scan algorithm for potential targets of miR-570-3p also identified ATP5L as one of its targets. We further identified two target sites for miR-570-3p in the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) of ATP5L mRNA. While ATP5L is a subunit of F0ATPase complex, its function is not established yet. Overexpression of miR-570-3p in platelets resulted in reduced levels of ATP5L mRNA and concomitant ATP loss. These experimental results provide first-time insights into the miRNA-mRNA interactions underlying mitochondrial dysfunction in ex vivo stored platelets and warrants further investigation.	3' Untranslated Regions;Adenosine Triphosphatases/metabolism;Binding Sites;Blood Platelets/ metabolism;Blood Preservation;Computational Biology/methods;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Regulatory Networks;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Mitochondrial Proton-Translocating ATPases/ genetics;Protein Subunits/ genetics;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/ genetics;Atp5l;microRNA;microarray;platelets;storage lesion
Highly efficient direct conversion of human fibroblasts to neuronal cells by chemical compounds	P. Dai, et al.	2015	26060345	Direct conversion of mammalian fibroblasts into induced neuronal (iN) cells has been attained by forced expression of pro-neural transcriptional factors, or by combining defined factors with either microRNAs or small molecules. Here, we show that neuronal cells can be converted from postnatal human fibroblasts into cell populations with neuronal purities of up to >80% using a combination of six chemical compounds. The chemical compound-induced neuronal cells (CiNCs) express neuron-specific proteins and functional neuron markers. The efficiency of CiNCs is unaffected by either the donor's age or cellular senescence (passage number). We propose this chemical direct converting strategy as a potential approach for highly efficient generation of neuronal cells from human fibroblasts for such uses as in neural disease modeling and regenerative medicine.	chemical compounds;direct conversion;human fibroblasts;neuronal cells
miRNAs modified by dietary lipids in Caco-2 cells. A microarray screening	L. Daimiel, et al.	2015	26484250	We performed a screening of miRNAs regulated by dietary lipids in a cellular model of enterocytes, Caco-2 cells. Our aim was to describe new lipid-modified miRNAs with an implication in lipid homeostasis and cardiovascular disease [1,2]. For that purpose, we treated differentiated Caco-2 cells with micelles containing the assayed lipids (cholesterol, conjugated linoleic acid and docosahexaenoic acid) and the screening of miRNAs was carried out by microarray using the muParaflo(R)Microfluidic Biochip Technology of LC Sciences (Huston, TX, USA). Experimental design, microarray description and raw data have been made available in the GEO database with the reference number of GSE59153. Here we described in detail the experimental design and methods used to obtain the relative expression data.	Caco-2 cells;Clustering analyses;Dietary lipids;MicroRNAs;Microarray screening
Dietary lipids modulate the expression of miR-107, a miRNA that regulates the circadian system	L. Daimiel-Ruiz, et al.	2015	26387852	SCOPE: The increased prevalence of cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) has been hypothesized to be the result of an increased exposure to a host of atherogenic environmental factors, paramount among them being unhealthy dietary habits. Long-chain n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) have been shown to have cardio protective effects, partially due to their ability to regulate gene expression. In this regard, increasing attention has been devoted to the role of miRNAs as regulators of multiple metabolic pathways whose deregulation has been associated with CVD risk. In this work we investigated whether miRNA expression was regulated by docosahexanoic acid, conjugated linoleic acid and cholesterol in Caco-2 cells. RESULTS: Among the modulated miRNAs, miR-107 was differentially expressed by all treatments and this modulation was independent of its hosting gene, panthothenate kinase 1, possibly through its own promoter, which contains binding sites for metabolically relevant transcription factors. Among the putative target genes of miR-107, we found some genes with key roles in circadian rhythm. Specifically, we demonstrated that binding of miR-107 to the circadian locomotor output cycles kaput gene results in the deregulation of the circadian rhythm of the cells. CONCLUSION: Since chronodisruption has been linked to metabolic disorders such as type 2 diabetes, atherosclerosis, obesity, and CVD, our findings suggest that miR-107 could represent a new approach for pharmacological treatment of these diseases.	Circadian rhythm;Dha;Dietary lipids;miR-107
Down regulation of miR-124 in both Werner syndrome DNA helicase mutant mice and mutant Caenorhabditis elegans wrn-1 reveals the importance of this microRNA in accelerated aging	A. Dallaire, et al.	2012	23075628	Small non-coding microRNAs are believed to be involved in the mechanism of aging but nothing is known on the impact of microRNAs in the progeroid disorder Werner syndrome (WS). WS is a premature aging disorder caused by mutations in a RecQ-like DNA helicase. Mice lacking the helicase domain of the WRN ortholog exhibit many phenotypic features of WS, including a pro-oxidant status and a shorter mean life span.Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) with a nonfunctional wrn-1 DNA helicase also exhibit a shorter life span. Thus, both models are relevant to study the expression of microRNAs involved in WS. In this study, we show that miR-124 expression is lost in the liver of Wrn helicase mutant mice. Interestingly, the expression of this conserved miR-124 in whole wrn-1 mutant worms is also significantly reduced. The loss of mir-124 in C. elegans increases reactive oxygen species formation and accumulation of the aging marker lipofuscin, reduces whole body ATP levels and results in a reduction in life span. Finally, supplementation of vitamin C normalizes the median life span of wrn-1 and mir-124 mutant worms. These results suggest that biological pathways involving WRN and miR-124 are conserved in the aging process across different species.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Caenorhabditis elegans;Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins/ genetics;DNA Helicases/ genetics;Down-Regulation;Mice;Mice, Mutant Strains;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Reactive Oxygen Species;RecQ Helicases/ genetics/metabolism;Werner Syndrome Helicase
The bacterial genotoxin colibactin promotes colon tumor growth by modifying the tumor microenvironment	G. Dalmasso, et al.	2014	25483338	The gut microbiota is suspected to promote colorectal cancer (CRC). Escherichia coli are more frequently found in CCR biopsies than in healthy mucosa; furthermore, the majority of mucosa-associated E. coli isolated from CCR harbors the pks genomic island (pks+ E. coli) that is responsible for the synthesis of colibactin, a genotoxic compound. We have recently reported that transient contact of a few malignant cells with colibactin-producing E. coli increases tumor growth in a xenograft mouse model. Growth is sustained by cellular senescence that is accompanied by the production of growth factors. We demonstrated that cellular senescence is a consequence of the pks+ E. coli-induced alteration of p53 SUMOylation, an essential post-translational modification in eukaryotic cells. The underlying mechanisms for this process involve the induction of miR-20a-5p expression, which targets SENP1, a key protein in the regulation of the SUMOylation process. These results are consistent with the expression of SENP1, miR-20a-5p and growth factors that are observed in a CRC mouse model and in human CCR biopsies colonized by pks+ E. coli. Overall, the data reveal a new paradigm for carcinogenesis in which pks+ E. coli infection induces cellular senescence characterized by the production of growth factors that promote the proliferation of uninfected cells and, subsequently, tumor growth.	Animals;Colonic Neoplasms/ pathology;Endopeptidases/metabolism;Escherichia coli/genetics/ growth & development;Mice;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Models, Biological;Mutagens/ metabolism;Peptides/genetics/ metabolism;Polyketides/ metabolism;Sumoylation;Tumor Microenvironment/ drug effects;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/metabolism;AOM, azoxymethane;CM, conditioned medium;CRC, colorectal cancer;DSS, dextran sodium sulfate;Escherichia coli, microbiota;MOI, multiplicity of infection;SA-beta-gal, senescence-associated beta-galactosidase;SASP, senescence-associated secretory phenotype;Senp1;Sumo;colibactin;colorectal cancer;miR, microRNA;pks+ E. coli, colibactin-producing E. coli;pks- E. coli, isogenic mutant of pks+ E. coli deficient for colibactin production;toxin, microRNA
Dicer inactivation leads to progressive functional and structural degeneration of the mouse retina	D. Damiani, et al.	2008	18463241	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, highly conserved molecules that have been shown to regulate the expression of genes by binding to specific target mRNAs. Dicer, an RNase III endonuclease, is essential for the production and function of mature miRNAs, and removal of Dicer has been shown to disrupt many developmental processes. In this study, Dicer was removed specifically from the retina using a floxed Dicer conditional allele and the retinal Chx10Cre transgene. Retinal Dicer knock-out mice displayed a reproducible inability to respond to light. In addition, morphological defects were observed with the formation of photoreceptor rosettes at postnatal day 16, which progressed to more general cellular disorganization and widespread degeneration of retinal cell types as the animals aged. This was accompanied by concomitant decrease in both scotopic and photopic electroretinogram (ERG) responses. Interestingly, removing a single allele of Dicer resulted in ERG deficits throughout life but not to morphological abnormalities. Northern blot analysis of Dicer-depleted retinas showed a decrease in several miRNAs. The observation that progressive retinal degeneration occurred after removal of Dicer raises the possibility that miRNAs are involved in retinal neurodegenerative disorders.	Aging;Animals;Animals, Newborn;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/ genetics;Disease Progression;Electroretinography;Endoribonucleases/ genetics;Gene Silencing;Heterozygote;Male;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Mosaicism;Phenotype;Retina/growth & development/metabolism/pathology/physiopathology;Retinal Degeneration/ genetics/pathology/physiopathology;Ribonuclease III/ genetics
CSF microRNA Profiling in Alzheimer's Disease: a Screening and Validation Study	A. Dangla-Valls, et al.	2016	27738874	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNA molecules that regulate gene expression through post-transcriptional repression of target genes. They have been shown to be implicated in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and proposed as disease biomarkers. In the present work, we have studied the expression levels of 754 miRNAs in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from AD patients and control subjects. We have explored a first screening cohort (N = 20) and selected 12 miRNAs to be further tested in a second independent validation cohort (N = 69). We have found a significant upregulation of miR-222 and miR-125b in AD CSF. Of these, the association of miR-222 with AD is novel and reported here for the first time whereas upregulation of miR-125b has been previously reported in AD brain. Yet we do not find association with other miRNAs which were previously linked to AD. Our results shed light on potential underlying pathophysiological processes of AD and also point out the need for consensus procedures in CSF miRNA detection and data analysis.	Alzheimer's disease;Biomarkers;Cerebrospinal fluid;miR-125b;miR-222;microRNAs
Arabidopsis class I and class II TCP transcription factors regulate jasmonic acid metabolism and leaf development antagonistically	S. Danisman, et al.	2012	22718775	TEOSINTE BRANCHED1/CYCLOIDEA/PROLIFERATING CELL FACTOR1 (TCP) transcription factors control developmental processes in plants. The 24 TCP transcription factors encoded in the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) genome are divided into two classes, class I and class II TCPs, which are proposed to act antagonistically. We performed a detailed phenotypic analysis of the class I tcp20 mutant, showing an increase in leaf pavement cell sizes in 10-d-old seedlings. Subsequently, a glucocorticoid receptor induction assay was performed, aiming to identify potential target genes of the TCP20 protein during leaf development. The LIPOXYGENASE2 (LOX2) and class I TCP9 genes were identified as TCP20 targets, and binding of TCP20 to their regulatory sequences could be confirmed by chromatin immunoprecipitation analyses. LOX2 encodes for a jasmonate biosynthesis gene, which is also targeted by class II TCP proteins that are under the control of the microRNA JAGGED AND WAVY (JAW), although in an antagonistic manner. Mutation of TCP9, the second identified TCP20 target, resulted in increased pavement cell sizes during early leaf developmental stages. Analysis of senescence in the single tcp9 and tcp20 mutants and the tcp9tcp20 double mutants showed an earlier onset of this process in comparison with wild-type control plants in the double mutant only. Both the cell size and senescence phenotypes are opposite to the known class II TCP mutant phenotype in JAW plants. Altogether, these results point to an antagonistic function of class I and class II TCP proteins in the control of leaf development via the jasmonate signaling pathway.	Arabidopsis/genetics/ growth & development/ metabolism/ultrastructure;Arabidopsis Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Cell Size/drug effects;Cyclopentanes/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Plant/drug effects;Glucocorticoids/pharmacology;Green Fluorescent Proteins/metabolism;Models, Biological;Mutation/genetics;Oxylipins/ metabolism;Phenotype;Plant Leaves/cytology/genetics/ growth & development/ultrastructure;Promoter Regions, Genetic/genetics;Protein Binding/drug effects;Protein Transport/drug effects;Transcription Factors/genetics/ metabolism
miRNA-205 suppresses melanoma cell proliferation and induces senescence via regulation of E2F1 protein	A. A. Dar, et al.	2011	21454583	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate gene expression by repressing translation or directing sequence-specific degradation of complementary mRNA. Here, we report that expression of miR-205 is significantly suppressed in melanoma specimens when compared with nevi and is correlated inversely with melanoma progression. miRNA target databases predicted E2F1 and E2F5 as putative targets. The expression levels of E2F1 and E2F5 were correlated inversely with that of miR-205 in melanoma cell lines. miR-205 significantly suppressed the luciferase activity of reporter plasmids containing the 3'-UTR sequences complementary to either E2F1 or E2F5. Overexpression of miR-205 in melanoma cells reduced E2F1 and E2F5 protein levels. The proliferative capacity of melanoma cells was suppressed by miR-205 and mediated by E2F-regulated AKT phosphorylation. miR-205 overexpression resulted in induction of apoptosis, as evidenced by increased cleaved caspase-3, poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase, and cytochrome c release. Stable overexpression of miR-205 suppressed melanoma cell proliferation, colony formation, and tumor cell growth in vivo and induced a senescence phenotype accompanied by elevated expression of p16INK4A and other markers for senescence. E2F1 overexpression in miR-205-expressing cells partially reversed the effects on melanoma cell growth and senescence. These results demonstrate a novel role for miR-205 as a tumor suppressor in melanoma.	3' Untranslated Regions;Apoptosis;Cell Aging;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Cell Survival;E2F1 Transcription Factor/ metabolism;E2F5 Transcription Factor/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Melanoma/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Models, Biological;Poly(ADP-ribose) Polymerases/metabolism;Skin Neoplasms/ metabolism
Delayed Cell Cycle Progression in STHdh(Q111)/Hdh(Q111) Cells, a Cell Model for Huntington's Disease Mediated by microRNA-19a, microRNA-146a and microRNA-432	E. Das, et al.	2015	26165466	Several indirect evidences are available to indicate that abnormalities in cell cycle may contribute to pathogenesis of Huntington's disease (HD). Here, we show that the cell cycle progression in STsdh(Q111)/Hdh(Q111)cells, a cell model of HD, is delayed in S and G2-M phases compared to control STHdhQ7/HdhQ7cells. Expression of 17 genes, like PCNA and CHEK1, was increased in STHdh(Q111)/Hdh(Q111)cells. Increased expressions of PCNA, CHEK1 and CCNA2, and an enhanced phosphorylation of Rb1 were observed in primary cortical neurons expressing mutant N-terminal huntingtin (HTT), R6/2 mice and STHdh(Q111)/Hdh(Q111) cells. This increase in the expressions of PCNA, CHEK1 and CCNA2 was found to be the result of decreased expressions of miR-432, miR-146a, and (miR-19a and miR-146a), respectively. Enhanced apoptosis was observed at late S phase and G2-M phase in STHdh(Q111)/Hdh(Q111)cells. Exogenous expressions of these miRNAs in STHdh(Q111)/Hdh(Q111) cells rescued the abnormalities in cell cycle and apoptosis. We also observed that inhibitors of cell cycle could decrease cell death in a cell model of HD. Based on these results obtained in cell and animal model of HD, we propose that inhibition of cell cycle either by miRNA expressions or by using inhibitors could be a potential approach for the treatment of HD.	Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Cell Cycle/drug effects/ genetics;Cell Line;Checkpoint Kinase 1;Corpus Striatum/metabolism;Cyclin A2/genetics;Disease Models, Animal;G1 Phase Cell Cycle Checkpoints/genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Huntington Disease/ genetics;In Vitro Techniques;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Proliferating Cell Nuclear Antigen/genetics;Protein Kinase Inhibitors/pharmacology;Protein Kinases/genetics;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/genetics;S Phase/genetics
Long term and excessive use of 900 MHz radiofrequency radiation alter microRNA expression in brain	S. Dasdag, et al.	2015	25529971	PURPOSE: We still do not have any information on the interaction between radiofrequency radiation (RF) and miRNA, which play paramount role in growth, differentiation, proliferation and cell death by suppressing one or more target genes. The purpose of this study was to bridge this gap by investigating effects of long-term 900 MHz mobile phone exposure on some of the miRNA in brain tissue. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was carried out on 14 Wistar Albino adult male rats by dividing them into two groups: Sham (n = 7) and exposure (n = 7). Rats in the exposure group were exposed to 900 MHz RF radiation for 3 h per day (7 days a week) for 12 months (one year). The same procedure was applied to the rats in the sham group except the generator was turned off. Immediately after the last exposure, rats were sacrificed and their brains were removed. rno-miR-9-5p, rno-miR-29a-3p, rno-miR-106b-5p, rno-miR-107 and rno-miR-125a-3p in brain were investigated in detail. RESULTS: Results revealed that long-term exposure of 900 MHz RF radiation only decreased rno-miR107 (adjP* = 0.045) value where the whole body (rms) SAR value was 0.0369 W/kg. However, our results indicated that other microRNA evaluated in this study was not altered by 900 MHz RF radiation. CONCLUSION: 900 MHz RF radiation can alter some of the miRNA, which, in turn, may lead to adverse effects. Therefore, further studies should be performed.	Alzheimer Disease/genetics;Animals;Brain/metabolism/ radiation effects;Cell Phones;Male;MicroRNAs/ analysis;Radio Waves/ adverse effects;Rats;Rats, Wistar;900 MHz RF radiation;Mobile phones;brain;diseases;miRNA
Neuronopathic Gaucher disease: dysregulated mRNAs and miRNAs in brain pathogenesis and effects of pharmacologic chaperone treatment in a mouse model	N. Dasgupta, et al.	2015	26420838	Defective lysosomal acid beta-glucosidase (GCase) in Gaucher disease causes accumulation of glucosylceramide (GC) and glucosylsphingosine (GS) that distress cellular functions. To study novel pathological mechanisms in neuronopathic Gaucher disease (nGD), a mouse model (4L;C*), an analogue to subacute human nGD, was investigated for global profiles of differentially expressed brain mRNAs (DEGs) and miRNAs (DEmiRs). 4L;C* mice displayed accumulation of GC and GS, activated microglial cells, reduced number of neurons and aberrant mitochondrial function in the brain followed by deterioration in motor function. DEGs and DEmiRs were characterized from sequencing of mRNA and miRNA from cerebral cortex, brain stem, midbrain and cerebellum of 4L;C* mice. Gene ontology enrichment and pathway analysis showed preferential mitochondrial dysfunction in midbrain and uniform inflammatory response and identified novel pathways, axonal guidance signaling, synaptic transmission, eIF2 and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling potentially involved in nGD. Similar analyses were performed with mice treated with isofagomine (IFG), a pharmacologic chaperone for GCase. IFG treatment did not alter the GS and GC accumulation significantly but attenuated the progression of the disease and altered numerous DEmiRs and target DEGs to their respective normal levels in inflammation, mitochondrial function and axonal guidance pathways, suggesting its regulation on miRNA and the associated mRNA that underlie the neurodegeneration in nGD. These analyses demonstrate that the neurodegenerative phenotype in 4L;C* mice was associated with dysregulation of brain mRNAs and miRNAs in axonal guidance, synaptic plasticity, mitochondria function, eIF2 and mTOR signaling and inflammation and provides new insights for the nGD pathological mechanism.	Animals;Axons/metabolism;Brain/ metabolism/pathology;Disease Models, Animal;Encephalitis/metabolism/pathology;Eukaryotic Initiation Factor-2/metabolism;Gaucher Disease/drug therapy/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Gene Expression Profiling;Glucosylceramides/metabolism;Imino Pyranoses/ therapeutic use;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Mitochondria/metabolism;Molecular Chaperones/metabolism/ therapeutic use;Neuroglia/pathology;Neurons/pathology;Phenotype;Psychosine/analogs & derivatives/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/ metabolism;Signal Transduction;Synaptic Transmission;TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases/metabolism
Developmental exposure to lead (Pb) alters the expression of the human tau gene and its products in a transgenic animal model	M. Dash, et al.	2016	27293183	Tauopathies are a class of neurodegenerative diseases associated with the pathological aggregation of the tau protein in the human brain. The best known of these illnesses is Alzheimer's disease (AD); a disease where the microtubule associated protein tau (MAPT) becomes hyperphosphorylated (lowering its binding affinity to microtubules) and aggregates within neurons in the form of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs). In this paper we examine whether environmental factors play a significant role in tau pathogenesis. Our studies were conducted in a double mutant mouse model that expressed the human tau gene and lacked the gene for murine tau. The human tau mouse model was tested for the transgene's ability to respond to an environmental toxicant. Pups were developmentally exposed to lead (Pb) from postnatal day (PND) 1-20 with 0.2% Pb acetate. Mice were then sacrificed at PND 20, 30, 40 and 60. Protein and mRNA levels for tau and CDK5 as well as tau phosphorylation at Ser396 were determined. In addition, the potential role of miRNA in tau expression was investigated by measuring levels of miR-34c, a miRNA that targets the mRNA for human tau, at PND20 and 50. The expression of the human tau transgene was altered by developmental exposure to Pb. This exposure also altered the expression of miR-34c. Our findings are the first of their kind to test the responsiveness of the human tau gene to an environmental toxicant and to examine an epigenetic mechanism that may be involved in the regulation of this gene's expression.	Alzheimer's disease;Lead;Neurofibrillary tangles;Tauopathy;microRNA
Discovering miRNA Regulatory Networks in Holt-Oram Syndrome Using a Zebrafish Model	R. D'Aurizio, et al.	2016	27471727	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that play an important role in the post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. miRNAs are involved in the regulation of many biological processes such as differentiation, apoptosis, and cell proliferation. miRNAs are expressed in embryonic, postnatal, and adult hearts, and they have a key role in the regulation of gene expression during cardiovascular development and disease. Aberrant expression of miRNAs is associated with abnormal cardiac cell differentiation and dysfunction. Tbx5 is a member of the T-box gene family, which acts as transcription factor involved in the vertebrate heart development. Alteration of Tbx5 level affects the expression of hundreds of genes. Haploinsufficiency and gene duplication of Tbx5 are at the basis of the cardiac abnormalities associated with Holt-Oram syndrome (HOS). Recent data indicate that miRNAs might be an important part of the regulatory circuit through which Tbx5 controls heart development. Using high-throughput technologies, we characterized genome-widely the miRNA and mRNA expression profiles in WT- and Tbx5-depleted zebrafish embryos at two crucial developmental time points, 24 and 48 h post fertilization (hpf). We found that several miRNAs, which are potential effectors of Tbx5, are differentially expressed; some of them are already known to be involved in cardiac development and functions, such as miR-30, miR-34, miR-190, and miR-21. We performed an integrated analysis of miRNA expression data with gene expression profiles to refine computational target prediction approaches by means of the inversely correlation of miRNA-mRNA expressions, and we highlighted targets, which have roles in cardiac contractility, cardiomyocyte proliferation/apoptosis, and morphogenesis, crucial functions regulated by Tbx5. This approach allowed to discover complex regulatory circuits involving novel miRNAs and protein coding genes not considered before in the HOS such as miR-34a and miR-30 and their targets.	Holt-Oram;Ngs;data integration;heart;microRNA;microarray;zebrafish
Morphine treatment of human monocyte-derived macrophages induces differential miRNA and protein expression: impact on inflammation and oxidative stress in the central nervous system	R. S. Dave and K. Khalili	2010	20564181	HIV-1-infected opiate abusers often exhibit an accelerated form of HIV-1-associated dementia and enhanced neurological dysfunction. Productive HIV-1 infection of microglia and perivascular macrophages and the resultant secretion of neurotoxic molecules by these cells contribute to this phenomenon. In order to understand the role of morphine in this process, we performed a genome-wide association study at the micro RNA (miRNA) and protein levels in human monocyte-derived macrophages (h-mdms). A total of 26 differentially expressed miRNA were identified (P < 0.01), of which hsa-miR-15b and hsa-miR-181b had the greatest increase and decrease in expression levels, respectively. Computational analysis predicted fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) as the strongest target gene for hsa-miR15b. Of note, we observed a decrease in FGF-2 protein expression in response to morphine. Both hsa-miR-15b and hsa-miR-181b have several predicted gene targets involved in inflammation and T-cell activation pathways. In this context, we observed induction of MCP-2 and IL-6 by morphine. Moreover, proteomic analysis revealed the induction of mitochondrial superoxide dismutase in response to morphine treatment. HIV-1 infection did not induce mitochondrial superoxide dismutase. Collectively, these observations demonstrate that morphine induces inflammation and oxidative stress in h-mdms thereby contributing to expansion of HIV-1 CNS reservoir expansion and disease progression. Of note, differentially expressed miRNAs (hsa-miR-15b and 181-b) may have a potential role in regulating these processes.	Central Nervous System/ metabolism;Electrophoresis, Gel, Two-Dimensional;Humans;Macrophages/ drug effects/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Morphine/ pharmacology;Oxidative Stress;Proteins/ genetics;Spectrometry, Mass, Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption-Ionization
Looking into the black box: insights into the mechanisms of somatic cell reprogramming	L. David, et al.	2011	24710139	The dramatic discovery that somatic cells could be reprogrammed to induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), by the expression of just four factors, has opened new opportunities for regenerative medicine and novel ways of modeling human diseases. Extensive research over the short time since the first iPSCs were generated has yielded the ability to reprogram various cell types using a diverse range of methods. However the duration, efficiency, and safety of induced reprogramming have remained a persistent limitation to achieving a robust experimental and therapeutic system. The field has worked to resolve these issues through technological advances using non-integrative approaches, factor replacement or complementation with microRNA, shRNA and drugs. Despite these advances, the molecular mechanisms underlying the reprogramming process remain poorly understood. Recently, through the use of inducible secondary reprogramming systems, researchers have now accessed more rigorous mechanistic experiments to decipher this complex process. In this review we will discuss some of the major recent findings in reprogramming, pertaining to proliferation and cellular senescence, epigenetic and chromatin remodeling, and other complex cellular processes such as morphological changes and mesenchymal-to-epithelial transition. We will focus on the implications of this work in the construction of a mechanistic understanding of reprogramming and discuss unexplored areas in this rapidly expanding field.	
Highly efficient small interfering RNA delivery to primary mammalian neurons induces MicroRNA-like effects before mRNA degradation	T. J. Davidson, et al.	2004	15537872	The study of protein function in neurons has been hindered by the lack of highly efficient, nontoxic methods of inducing RNA interference in such cells. Here we show that application of synthetic small interfering RNA (siRNA) linked to the vector peptide Penetratin1 results in rapid, highly efficient uptake of siRNA by entire populations of cultured primary mammalian hippocampal and sympathetic neurons. This treatment leads to specific knock-down of targeted proteins within hours without the toxicity associated with transfection. In contrast to current methods, our technique permits study of protein function across entire populations with minimal disturbance of complex cellular networks. Using this technique, we found that protein knock-down (evident after 6 hr) precedes any decrease in targeted message (evident after 24 hr), suggesting an early, translational repression by perfectly targeted siRNAs.	Animals;Carrier Proteins/administration & dosage;Caspase 3;Caspases/analysis/genetics;Cells, Cultured/drug effects/metabolism;Culture Media, Serum-Free/pharmacology;Gene Targeting/ methods;Hippocampus/cytology;Mice;Neurons/ drug effects/metabolism;Protein Biosynthesis/ drug effects;RNA, Messenger/ metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/ pharmacology;Rats;Superior Cervical Ganglion/cytology;Superoxide Dismutase/analysis/genetics;Superoxide Dismutase-1;Transfection
MicroRNA-183-5p Increases with Age in Bone-Derived Extracellular Vesicles, Suppresses Bone Marrow Stromal (Stem) Cell Proliferation, and Induces Stem Cell Senescence	C. Davis, et al.	2017	28363268	Microvesicle- and exosome-mediated transport of microRNAs (miRNAs) represents a novel cellular and molecular pathway for cell-cell communication. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that these extracellular vesicles (EVs) and their miRNAs might change with age, contributing to age-related stem cell dysfunction. EVs were isolated from the bone marrow interstitial fluid (supernatant) of young (3-4 months) and aged (24-28 months) mice to determine whether the size, concentration, and miRNA profile of EVs were altered with age in vivo. Results show that EVs isolated from bone marrow are CD63 and CD9 positive, and the concentration and size distribution of bone marrow EVs are similar between the young and aged mice. Bioanalyzer data indicate that EVs from both young and aged mice are highly enriched in miRNAs, and the miRNA profile of bone marrow EVs differs significantly between the young and aged mice. Specifically, the miR-183 cluster (miR-96/-182/-183) is highly expressed in aged EVs. In vitro assays demonstrate that aged EVs are endocytosed by primary bone marrow stromal cells (BMSCs), and these aged EVs inhibit the osteogenic differentiation of young BMSCs. Transfection of BMSCs with miR-183-5p mimic reduces cell proliferation and osteogenic differentiation, increases senescence, and decreases protein levels of the miR-183-5p target heme oxygenase-1 (Hmox1). In vitro assays utilizing H2O2-induced oxidative stress show that H2O2 treatment of BMSCs increases the abundance of miR-183-5p in BMSC-derived EVs, and Amplex Red assays demonstrate that H2O2 is elevated in the bone marrow microenvironment with age. Together, these data indicate that aging and oxidative stress can significantly alter the miRNA cargo of EVs in the bone marrow microenvironment, which may in turn play a role in stem cell senescence and osteogenic differentiation by reducing Hmox1 activity.	bone;exosomes;miRNA;oxidative stress
Disruption of the Cx43/miR21 pathway leads to osteocyte apoptosis and increased osteoclastogenesis with aging	H. M. Davis, et al.	2017	28317237	Skeletal aging results in apoptosis of osteocytes, cells embedded in bone that control the generation/function of bone forming and resorbing cells. Aging also decreases connexin43 (Cx43) expression in bone; and osteocytic Cx43 deletion partially mimics the skeletal phenotype of old mice. Particularly, aging and Cx43 deletion increase osteocyte apoptosis, and osteoclast number and bone resorption on endocortical bone surfaces. We examined herein the molecular signaling events responsible for osteocyte apoptosis and osteoclast recruitment triggered by aging and Cx43 deficiency. Cx43-silenced MLO-Y4 osteocytic (Cx43def ) cells undergo spontaneous cell death in culture through caspase-3 activation and exhibit increased levels of apoptosis-related genes, and only transfection of Cx43 constructs able to form gap junction channels reverses Cx43def cell death. Cx43def cells and bones from old mice exhibit reduced levels of the pro-survival microRNA miR21 and, consistently, increased levels of the miR21 target phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) and reduced phosphorylated Akt, whereas PTEN inhibition reduces Cx43def cell apoptosis. miR21 reduction is sufficient to induce apoptosis of Cx43-expressing cells and miR21 deletion in miR21fl/fl bones increases apoptosis-related gene expression, whereas a miR21 mimic prevents Cx43def cell apoptosis, demonstrating that miR21 lies downstream of Cx43. Cx43def cells release more osteoclastogenic cytokines [receptor activator of NFkappaB ligand (RANKL)/high-mobility group box-1 (HMGB1)], and caspase-3 inhibition prevents RANKL/HMGB1 release and the increased osteoclastogenesis induced by conditioned media from Cx43def cells, which is blocked by antagonizing HMGB1-RAGE interaction. These findings identify a novel Cx43/miR21/HMGB1/RANKL pathway involved in preventing osteocyte apoptosis that also controls osteoclast formation/recruitment and is impaired with aging.	Hmgb1;aging;apoptosis;connexin43;miR21;osteocyte
miR-338-3p is over-expressed in blood, CFS, serum and spinal cord from sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients	B. De Felice, et al.	2014	25130371	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive and seriously disabling adult-onset neurological disease. Ninety percent of ALS patients are sporadic cases (sALS) with no clear genetic linkage. Accumulating evidence indicates that various microRNAs (miRNAs), expressed in a spatially and temporally controlled manner in the brain, play a key role in neuronal development. In addition, microRNA dysregulation contributes to some mental disorders and neurodegeneration diseases. In our research, the expression of one selected miRNA, miR-338-3p, which previously we have found over-expressed in blood leukocytes, was studied in several different tissues from sALS patients. For the first time, we detected a specific microRNA disease-related upregulation, miR-338-3p, in blood leukocytes as well in cerebrospinal fluid, serum, and spinal cord from sALS patients. Besides, staining of in situ hybridization showed that the signals of miR-338-3p were localized in the grey matter of spinal cord tissues from sALS autopsied patients. We propose that miRNA profiles found in tissue samples from sALS patients can be relevant to understand sALS pathogenesis and lead to set up effective biomarkers for sALS early diagnosis.	Aged;Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/blood/cerebrospinal fluid/ metabolism;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/blood/cerebrospinal fluid/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Neurodegenerative Diseases/metabolism;Spinal Cord/metabolism;Up-Regulation
A miRNA signature in leukocytes from sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis	B. De Felice, et al.	2012	22903028	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive and seriously disabling adult-onset neurological disease. Accumulating evidence indicates that various miRNAs, expressed in a spatially and temporally controlled manner in the brain, play a key role in neuronal development. In addition, misregulation of microRNAs contributes to some mental disorders and neurodegeneration diseases. Here, we analyzed the expression profiles of 911 human miRNAs using microarray technology in leukocytes, the most readily available human tissue cells, obtained from 8 patients affected by sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (sALS) and 12 healthy controls. An independent group of 14 sALS patients and 14 controls was used for validation by TaqMan real-time polymerase chain reaction assay. We identified 8 miRNAs that were significantly up- or downregulated in sALS patients as compared to healthy controls. The significant variations in miRNAs profiles detected in leukocytes have been related to miRNAs predominantly expressed in the nervous system. One of these miRNAs, miR-338-3p, has previously been shown to be de-regulated in ALS brains. This study, for the first time, detected specific microRNAs disease-related changes at an earlier stage of sALS. We suggest that miRNAs profiles found in the peripheral blood leukocytes from sALS patients can be relevant to understand the pathogenesis of sALS and/or used as biomarkers of the disease.	Aged;Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/blood/ genetics/metabolism;Biomarkers/ blood;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Glutamate Plasma Membrane Transport Proteins/metabolism;Humans;Leukocytes/cytology/ metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction
microRNA-379 couples glucocorticoid hormones to dysfunctional lipid homeostasis	R. M. de Guia, et al.	2015	25510864	In mammals, glucocorticoids (GCs) and their intracellular receptor, the glucocorticoid receptor (GR), represent critical checkpoints in the endocrine control of energy homeostasis. Indeed, aberrant GC action is linked to severe metabolic stress conditions as seen in Cushing's syndrome, GC therapy and certain components of the Metabolic Syndrome, including obesity and insulin resistance. Here, we identify the hepatic induction of the mammalian conserved microRNA (miR)-379/410 genomic cluster as a key component of GC/GR-driven metabolic dysfunction. Particularly, miR-379 was up-regulated in mouse models of hyperglucocorticoidemia and obesity as well as human liver in a GC/GR-dependent manner. Hepatocyte-specific silencing of miR-379 substantially reduced circulating very-low-density lipoprotein (VLDL)-associated triglyceride (TG) levels in healthy mice and normalized aberrant lipid profiles in metabolically challenged animals, mediated through miR-379 effects on key receptors in hepatic TG re-uptake. As hepatic miR-379 levels were also correlated with GC and TG levels in human obese patients, the identification of a GC/GR-controlled miRNA cluster not only defines a novel layer of hormone-dependent metabolic control but also paves the way to alternative miRNA-based therapeutic approaches in metabolic dysfunction.	Animals;Cell Line;Female;Gene Silencing;Glucocorticoids/genetics/ metabolism;Humans;Lipid Metabolism;Lipoproteins, VLDL/genetics/metabolism;Liver/ metabolism/pathology;Male;Mice;Mice, Obese;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Obesity/genetics/ metabolism;Triglycerides/genetics/metabolism;Ldlr;Lsr;VLDL triglyceride;glucocorticoid signalling;miRNA-379
Designing small multiple-target artificial RNAs	V. De Guire, et al.	2010	20453028	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are naturally occurring small RNAs that regulate the expression of several genes. MiRNAs' targeting rules are based on sequence complementarity between their mature products and targeted genes' mRNAs. Based on our present understanding of those rules, we developed an algorithm to design artificial miRNAs to target simultaneously a set of predetermined genes. To validate in silico our algorithm, we tested different sets of genes known to be targeted by a single miRNA. The algorithm finds the seed of the corresponding miRNA among the solutions, which also include the seeds of new artificial miRNA sequences potentially capable of targeting these genes as well. We also validated the functionality of some artificial miRNAs designed to target simultaneously members of the E2F family. These artificial miRNAs reproduced the effects of E2Fs inhibition in both normal human fibroblasts and prostate cancer cells where they inhibited cell proliferation and induced cellular senescence. We conclude that the current miRNA targeting rules based on the seed sequence work to design multiple-target artificial miRNAs. This approach may find applications in both research and therapeutics.	Algorithms;Cell Aging;Cell Line;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;E2F Transcription Factors/antagonists & inhibitors;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;MicroRNAs/ chemistry/metabolism
MicroRNAs both promote and antagonize longevity in C. elegans	A. de Lencastre, et al.	2010	21129974	BACKGROUND: aging is under genetic control in C. elegans, but the mechanisms of life-span regulation are not completely known. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate various aspects of development and metabolism, and one miRNA has been previously implicated in life span. RESULTS: here we show that multiple miRNAs change expression in C. elegans aging, including novel miRNAs, and that mutations in several of the most upregulated miRNAs lead to life-span defects. Some act to promote normal life span and stress resistance, whereas others inhibit these phenomena. We find that these miRNAs genetically interact with genes in the DNA damage checkpoint response pathway and in the insulin signaling pathway. CONCLUSIONS: our findings reveal that miRNAs both positively and negatively influence life span. Because several miRNAs upregulated during aging regulate genes in conserved pathways of aging and thereby influence life span in C. elegans, we propose that miRNAs may play important roles in stress response and aging of more complex organisms.	Aging/genetics;Animals;Base Sequence;Caenorhabditis elegans/ genetics/ physiology;Humans;Insulin-Like Growth Factor I/physiology;Longevity/ genetics/physiology;MicroRNAs/chemistry/ genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Nucleic Acid Conformation;Sequence Alignment;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Signal Transduction/physiology;Stress, Physiological
Discovery of Novel microRNAs in Aging Caenorhabditis elegans	A. de Lencastre and F. Slack	2015	26420721	The rapid development of deep sequencing technologies over the last few years and concomitant increases in sequencing depth and cost efficiencies have opened the door to a ever-widening range of applications in biology-from whole-genome sequencing, to ChIP-seq analysis, epigenomic and RNA transcriptome surveys. Here we describe the application of deep sequencing to the discovery of novel microRNAs and characterization of their differential expression during adulthood in Caenorhabditis elegans.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Caenorhabditis elegans/ genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Reproducibility of Results;Caenorhabditis elegans;Deep sequencing;Differential gene expression;microRNA
Programmatic features of aging originating in development: aging mechanisms beyond molecular damage?	J. P. de Magalhaes	2012	22964300	The idea that aging follows a predetermined sequence of events, a program, has been discredited by most contemporary authors. Instead, aging is largely thought to occur due to the accumulation of various forms of molecular damage. Recent work employing functional genomics now suggests that, indeed, certain facets of mammalian aging may follow predetermined patterns encoded in the genome as part of developmental processes. It appears that genetic programs coordinating some aspects of growth and development persist into adulthood and may become detrimental. This link between development and aging may occur due to regulated processes, including through the action of microRNAs and epigenetic mechanisms. Taken together with other results, in particular from worms, these findings provide evidence that some aging changes are not primarily a result of a build-up of stochastic damage but are rather a product of regulated processes. These processes are interpreted as forms of antagonistic pleiotropy, the product of a "shortsighted watchmaker," and thus do not assume aging evolved for a purpose. Overall, it appears that the genome does, indeed, contain specific instructions that drive aging in animals, a radical shift in our perception of the aging process.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;DNA Methylation;Evolution, Molecular;Gene Expression Profiling;Genetic Predisposition to Disease/ genetics;Humans;Longevity/ genetics;MicroRNAs/genetics;Models, Genetic
Dynamic BRG1 recruitment during T helper differentiation and activation reveals distal regulatory elements	S. De, et al.	2011	21262765	T helper cell differentiation and activation require specific transcriptional programs accompanied by changes in chromatin structure. However, little is known about the chromatin remodeling enzymes responsible. We performed genome-wide analysis to determine the general principles of BRG1 binding, followed by analysis of specific genes to determine whether these general rules were typical of key T cell genes. We found that binding of the remodeling protein BRG1 was programmed by both lineage and activation signals. BRG1 binding positively correlated with gene activity at protein-coding and microRNA (miRNA) genes. BRG1 binding was found at promoters and distal regions, including both novel and previously validated distal regulatory elements. Distal BRG1 binding correlated with expression, and novel distal sites in the Gata3 locus possessed enhancer-like activity, suggesting a general role for BRG1 in long-distance gene regulation. BRG1 recruitment to distal sites in Gata3 was impaired in cells lacking STAT6, a transcription factor that regulates lineage-specific genes. Together, these findings suggest that BRG1 interprets both differentiation and activation signals and plays a causal role in gene regulation, chromatin structure, and cell fate. Our findings suggest that BRG1 binding is a useful marker for identifying active cis-regulatory regions in protein-coding and miRNA genes.	Animals;Binding Sites;Cell Differentiation/ genetics;Cell Lineage/genetics;Chromatin/metabolism;CpG Islands/genetics;DNA Helicases/ metabolism;Enhancer Elements, Genetic/genetics;GATA3 Transcription Factor/genetics;Histones/metabolism;Lymphocyte Activation/ genetics/immunology;Lymphocyte Subsets/metabolism;Lysine/metabolism;Methylation;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Nuclear Proteins/ metabolism;Organ Specificity/genetics;Promoter Regions, Genetic;Protein Binding;STAT Transcription Factors/metabolism;T-Lymphocytes, Helper-Inducer/ cytology/ immunology;Transcription Factors/ metabolism;Transcription Initiation Site
Exploring the genes of yerba mate (Ilex paraguariensis A. St.-Hil.) by NGS and de novo transcriptome assembly	H. J. Debat, et al.	2014	25330175	Yerba mate (Ilex paraguariensis A. St.-Hil.) is an important subtropical tree crop cultivated on 326,000 ha in Argentina, Brazil and Paraguay, with a total yield production of more than 1,000,000 t. Yerba mate presents a strong limitation regarding sequence information. The NCBI GenBank lacks an EST database of yerba mate and depicts only 80 DNA sequences, mostly uncharacterized. In this scenario, in order to elucidate the yerba mate gene landscape by means of NGS, we explored and discovered a vast collection of I. paraguariensis transcripts. Total RNA from I. paraguariensis was sequenced by Illumina HiSeq-2000 obtaining 72,031,388 pair-end 100 bp sequences. High quality reads were de novo assembled into 44,907 transcripts encompassing 40 million bases with an estimated coverage of 180X. Multiple sequence analysis allowed us to predict that yerba mate contains approximately 32,355 genes and 12,551 gene variants or isoforms. We identified and categorized members of more than 100 metabolic pathways. Overall, we have identified approximately 1,000 putative transcription factors, genes involved in heat and oxidative stress, pathogen response, as well as disease resistance and hormone response. We have also identified, based in sequence homology searches, novel transcripts related to osmotic, drought, salinity and cold stress, senescence and early flowering. We have also pinpointed several members of the gene silencing pathway, and characterized the silencing effector Argonaute1. We predicted a diverse supply of putative microRNA precursors involved in developmental processes. We present here the first draft of the transcribed genomes of the yerba mate chloroplast and mitochondrion. The putative sequence and predicted structure of the caffeine synthase of yerba mate is presented. Moreover, we provide a collection of over 10,800 SSR accessible to the scientific community interested in yerba mate genetic improvement. This contribution broadly expands the limited knowledge of yerba mate genes, and is presented as the first genomic resource of this important crop.	Chlorogenic Acid/metabolism;DNA Transposable Elements/genetics;DNA, Intergenic/genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Genes, Plant/ genetics;Genomics;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Ilex paraguariensis/enzymology/ genetics;Methyltransferases/genetics;Microsatellite Repeats/genetics;Molecular Sequence Annotation;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Sequence Analysis, RNA
Post-transcriptional control of GRF transcription factors by microRNA miR396 and GIF co-activator affects leaf size and longevity	J. M. Debernardi, et al.	2014	24888433	The growth-regulating factors (GRFs) are plant-specific transcription factors. They form complexes with GRF-interacting factors (GIFs), a small family of transcriptional co-activators. In Arabidopsis thaliana, seven out of the nine GRFs are controlled by microRNA miR396. Analysis of Arabidopsis plants carrying a GRF3 allele insensitive to miR396 revealed a strong boost in the number of cells in leaves, which was further enhanced synergistically by an additional increase of GIF1 levels. Genetic experiments revealed that GRF3 can still increase cell number in gif1 mutants, albeit to a much lesser extent. Genome-wide transcript profiling indicated that the simultaneous increase of GRF3 and GIF1 levels causes additional effects in gene expression compared to either of the transgenes alone. We observed that GIF1 interacts in vivo with GRF3, as well as with chromatin-remodeling complexes, providing a mechanistic explanation for the synergistic activities of a GRF3-GIF1 complex. Interestingly, we found that, in addition to the leaf size, the GRF system also affects the organ longevity. Genetic and molecular analysis revealed that the functions of GRFs in leaf growth and senescence can be uncoupled, demonstrating that the miR396-GRF-GIF network impinges on different stages of leaf development. Our results integrate the post-transcriptional control of the GRF transcription factors with the progression of leaf development.	Cell Aging/genetics/physiology;Gene Expression Regulation, Plant/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Plant Leaves/ genetics;Protein Binding;Trans-Activators/ genetics/ metabolism;Transcription Factors/genetics/ metabolism;An3;GRF-interacting factors;growth-regulating factor;miR396;proliferation;senescence
TFEB-mediated autophagy rescues midbrain dopamine neurons from alpha-synuclein toxicity	M. Decressac, et al.	2013	23610405	The aggregation of alpha-synuclein plays a major role in Parkinson disease (PD) pathogenesis. Recent evidence suggests that defects in the autophagy-mediated clearance of alpha-synuclein contribute to the progressive loss of nigral dopamine neurons. Using an in vivo model of alpha-synuclein toxicity, we show that the PD-like neurodegenerative changes induced by excess cellular levels of alpha-synuclein in nigral dopamine neurons are closely linked to a progressive decline in markers of lysosome function, accompanied by cytoplasmic retention of transcription factor EB (TFEB), a major transcriptional regulator of the autophagy-lysosome pathway. The changes in lysosomal function, observed in the rat model as well as in human PD midbrain, were reversed by overexpression of TFEB, which afforded robust neuroprotection via the clearance of alpha-synuclein oligomers, and were aggravated by microRNA-128-mediated repression of TFEB in both A9 and A10 dopamine neurons. Delayed activation of TFEB function through inhibition of mammalian target of rapamycin blocked alpha-synuclein induced neurodegeneration and further disease progression. The results provide a mechanistic link between alpha-synuclein toxicity and impaired TFEB function, and highlight TFEB as a key player in the induction of alpha-synuclein-induced toxicity and PD pathogenesis, thus identifying TFEB as a promising target for therapies aimed at neuroprotection and disease modification in PD.	Animals;Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins/biosynthesis;Autophagy;Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Leucine Zipper Transcription;Factors/metabolism/ physiology;Beclin-1;Brain/metabolism;Brain Mapping/methods;Dependovirus;Dopamine;Female;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Immunohistochemistry;Lysosomes/metabolism;Mesencephalon/ pathology;Neurons/ metabolism;Neuroprotective Agents/pharmacology;Parkinson Disease/metabolism/pathology;Protein Binding;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;alpha-Synuclein/ metabolism;Beclin;adeno-associated virus;aggregates;synucleinopathy
Alzheimer-specific variants in the 3'UTR of Amyloid precursor protein affect microRNA function	C. Delay, et al.	2011	21982160	BACKGROUND: APP expression misregulation can cause genetic Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent evidences support the hypothesis that polymorphisms located in microRNA (miRNA) target sites could influence the risk of developing neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease (PD) and frontotemporal dementia. Recently, a number of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) located in the 3'UTR of APP have been found in AD patients with family history of dementia. Because miRNAs have previously been implicated in APP expression regulation, we set out to determine whether these polymorphisms could affect miRNA function and therefore APP levels. RESULTS: Bioinformatics analysis identified twelve putative miRNA bindings sites located in or near the APP 3'UTR variants T117C, A454G and A833C. Among those candidates, seven miRNAs, including miR-20a, miR-17, miR-147, miR-655, miR-323-3p, miR-644, and miR-153 could regulate APP expression in vitro and under physiological conditions in cells. Using luciferase-based assays, we could show that the T117C variant inhibited miR-147 binding, whereas the A454G variant increased miR-20a binding, consequently having opposite effects on APP expression. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our results provide proof-of-principle that APP 3'UTR polymorphisms could affect AD risk through modulation of APP expression regulation, and set the stage for further association studies in genetic and sporadic AD.	
MicroRNAs targeting Nicastrin regulate Abeta production and are affected by target site polymorphisms	C. Delay, et al.	2014	25100943	Despite the growing number of genome-wide association studies, the involvement of polymorphisms in microRNA target sites (polymiRTS) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains poorly investigated. Recently, we have shown that AD-associated single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) present in the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) of amyloid precursor protein (APP) could directly affect miRNA function. In theory, loss of microRNA (miRNA) function could lead to risk for AD by increasing APP expression and Abeta peptide production. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that Nicastrin, a gamma-secretase subunit involved in Abeta generation, could be regulated by miRNAs, and consequently affected by 3'UTR polymorphisms. Bioinformatic analysis identified 22 putative miRNA binding sites located in or near Nicastrin 3'UTR polymorphisms. From these miRNA candidates, six were previously shown to be expressed in human brain. We identified miR-24, miR-186, and miR-455 as regulators of Nicastrin expression, both in vitro and under physiological conditions in human cells, which resulted in altered Abeta secretion. Using luciferase-based assays, we further demonstrated that rs113810300 and rs141849450 SNPs affected miRNA-mediated repression of Nicastrin. Notably, rs141849450 completely abolished the miR-455-mediated repression of Nicastrin. Finally, the rs141849450 variant was identified in 1 out of 511 AD cases but not in 631 controls. These observations set the stage for future studies exploring the role of miRNAs and 3'UTR polymorphisms in AD.	Alzheimer's disease;Nicastrin;miR-186;miR-455;microRNA;single-nucleotide polymorphism
miRNA-dependent target regulation: functional characterization of single-nucleotide polymorphisms identified in genome-wide association studies of Alzheimer's disease	C. Delay, et al.	2016	27215977	BACKGROUND: A growing body of evidence suggests that microRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and that some disease-associated genetic variants are located within miRNA binding sites. In the present study, we sought to characterize functional polymorphisms in miRNA target sites within the loci defined in earlier genome-wide association studies (GWAS). The main objectives of this study were to (1) facilitate the identification of the gene or genes responsible for the GWAS signal within a locus of interest and (2) determine how functional polymorphisms might be involved in the AD process (e.g., by affecting miRNA-mediated variations in gene expression). METHODS: Stringent in silico analyses were developed to select potential polymorphisms susceptible to impairment of miRNA-mediated repression, and subsequent functional assays were performed in HeLa and HEK293 cells. RESULTS: Two polymorphisms were identified and further analyzed in vitro. The AD-associated rs7143400-T allele (located in 3' untranslated region [3'-UTR] of FERMT2) cotransfected with miR-4504 resulted in lower protein levels relative to the rs7143400-G allele cotransfected with the same miRNA. The AD-associated rs9909-C allele in the 3'-UTR of NUP160 abolished the miR-1185-1-3p-regulated expression observed for the rs9909-G allele. CONCLUSIONS: When considered in conjunction with the findings of previous association studies, our results suggest that decreased expression of FERMT2 might be a risk factor in the etiopathology of AD, whereas increased expression of NUP160 might protect against the disease. Our data therefore provide new insights into AD by highlighting two new proteins putatively involved in the disease process.	3' Untranslated Regions;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics;Binding Sites;Computer Simulation;Gene Expression Regulation;Genome-Wide Association Study;HEK293 Cells;HeLa Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Alzheimer's disease;Fermt2;MicroRNA;Nup160;PolymiRTS;Single-nucleotide polymorphism
MicroRNAs and Alzheimer's Disease Mouse Models: Current Insights and Future Research Avenues	C. Delay and S. S. Hebert	2011	21826259	Evidence from clinical trials as well as from studies performed in animal models suggest that both amyloid and tau pathologies function in concert with other factors to cause the severe neurodegeneration and dementia in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Accumulating data in the literature suggest that microRNAs (miRNAs) could be such factors. These conserved, small nonprotein-coding RNAs are essential for neuronal function and survival and have been implicated in the regulation of key genes involved in genetic and sporadic AD. The study of miRNA changes in AD mouse models provides an appealing approach to address the cause-consequence relationship between miRNA dysfunction and AD pathology in humans. Mouse models also provide attractive tools to validate miRNA targets in vivo and provide unique platforms to study the role of specific miRNA-dependent gene pathways in disease. Finally, mouse models may be exploited for miRNA diagnostics in the fight against AD.	
Design and Fabrication a Gold Nanoparticle-DNA Based Nanobiosensor for Detection of microRNA Involved in Alzheimer's Disease	S. Delkhahi, et al.	2017	27909844	MicroRNAs are small RNAs which regulate gene expression by translational repression or degradation of messenger RNAs. Regards to important role of these biomolecules in human disease progress, to produce sensitive, simple and cost-effective assays for microRNAs are in urgent demand. miR-137 in Alzheimer's patients has demonstrated its potential as non-invasive biomarkers in blood for Alzheimer's disease diagnosis and prognosis. This paper describes a novel, sensitive and specific microRNA assay based on Colorimetric detection of gold nanoparticles and hybridization chain reaction amplification (HCR). The new strategy eliminates the need for enzymatic reactions, chemical changes, separation processes and sophisticated equipment. The detection process is visible with the naked eyes and detection limit for this method is 0.25nM which is less than or at least comparable with the previous methods based on colorimetric of AuNPs. The important features of this method are high sensitivity and specificity to differentiate between perfectly matched, mismatched and non-complementary target microRNAs and also decent response in the real sample analysis with blood plasma. In conclusion, the simple and fast nanobiosensor can clinically be used for the early detection of Alzheimer's disease by direct detection of the plasma miR-137 in real clinical samples, without a need for sample preparation, RNA extraction and/or amplification.	Alzheimer's disease;Colorimetric;Gold nanoparticles;Hybridization Chain Reaction;Nanobiosensor;microRNAs
MicroRNA-17-5p: At the Crossroads of Cancer and Aging - A Mini-Review	H. Dellago, et al.	2017	27577994	The miR-17-92 cluster, led by its most prominent member, miR-17-5p, has been identified as the first miRNA with oncogenic potential. Thus, the whole cluster containing miR-17-5p has been termed oncomiR-1. It is strongly expressed in embryonic stem cells and has essential roles in vital processes like cell cycle regulation, proliferation and apoptosis. The importance of miR-17-5p for fundamental biological processes is underscored by the fact that a miR17-deficient mouse is neonatally lethal. Recently, miR-17-5p was identified in the context of aging, since it is comprised in a common signature of miRNAs that is downregulated in several models of aging research. Recently, miR-17-5p turned out to be the first 'longevimiR' in an animal model, extending the lifespan of a transgenic miR-17-5p-overexpressing mouse. Here, we summarize the current status of research on miR-17-5p with emphasis on its role in cellular senescence, aging and cancer, which points to a pleiotropic function of miR-17-5p regulating multiple targets involved in autophagy, cell cycle regulation and apoptosis in a tissue-dependent fashion. In addition, its elevated presence in serum or plasma of a wide range of tumor patients suggests using it as an 'alarmiR', a general indicator of a potential tumor pathology. However, amounts of circulating miR-17-5p of healthy individuals as reference values are still missing, before any miRNA can be classified as such an 'alarmiR'. In conclusion, miR-17-5p is at the crossroads of aging, longevity and cancer and might represent a promising biomarker or even therapeutic tool and target in this context.	
High levels of oncomiR-21 contribute to the senescence-induced growth arrest in normal human cells and its knock-down increases the replicative lifespan	H. Dellago, et al.	2013	23496142	Cellular senescence of normal human cells has by now far exceeded its initial role as a model system for aging research. Many reports show the accumulation of senescent cells in vivo, their effect on their microenvironment and its double-edged role as tumour suppressor and promoter. Importantly, removal of senescent cells delays the onset of age-associated diseases in mouse model systems. To characterize the role of miRNAs in cellular senescence of endothelial cells, we performed miRNA arrays from HUVECs of five different donors. Twelve miRNAs, comprising hsa-miR-23a, hsa-miR-23b, hsa-miR-24, hsa-miR-27a, hsa-miR-29a, hsa-miR-31, hsa-miR-100, hsa-miR-193a, hsa-miR-221, hsa-miR-222 and hsa-let-7i are consistently up-regulated in replicatively senescent cells. Surprisingly, also miR-21 was found up-regulated by replicative and stress-induced senescence, despite being described as oncogenic. Transfection of early passage endothelial cells with miR-21 resulted in lower angiogenesis, and less cell proliferation mirrored by up-regulation of p21(CIP1) and down-regulation of CDK2. These two cell-cycle regulators are indirectly regulated by miR-21 via its validated direct targets NFIB (Nuclear factor 1 B-type), a transcriptional inhibitor of p21(CIP) (1) , and CDC25A, which regulates CDK2 activity by dephosphorylation. Knock-down of either NFIB or CDC25A shows a phenocopy of over-expressing miR-21 in regard to cell-cycle arrest. Finally, miR-21 over-epxression reduces the replicative lifespan, while stable knock-down by sponges extends the replicative lifespan of endothelial cells. Therefore, we propose that miR-21 is the first miRNA that upon its knock-down extends the replicative lifespan of normal human cells.	Apoptosis;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 2/biosynthesis/ metabolism;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/genetics/ metabolism;Down-Regulation;Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells/metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;NFI Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;Neovascularization, Physiologic/genetics;RNA Interference;RNA, Small Interfering;Transfection;Up-Regulation;cdc25 Phosphatases/genetics
Decreased glycolate oxidase activity leads to altered carbon allocation and leaf senescence after a transfer from high CO2 to ambient air in Arabidopsis thaliana	Y. Dellero, et al.	2016	26896850	Metabolic and physiological analyses of Arabidopsis thaliana glycolate oxidase (GOX) mutant leaves were performed to understand the development of the photorespiratory phenotype after transfer from high CO2 to air. We show that two Arabidopsis genes, GOX1 and GOX2, share a redundant photorespiratory role. Air-grown single gox1 and gox2 mutants grew normally and no significant differences in leaf metabolic levels and photosynthetic activities were found when compared with wild-type plants. To study the impact of a highly reduced GOX activity on plant metabolism, both GOX1 and GOX2 expression was knocked-down using an artificial miRNA strategy. Air-grown amiRgox1/2 plants with a residual 5% GOX activity exhibited a severe growth phenotype. When high-CO2-grown adult plants were transferred to air, the photosynthetic activity of amiRgox1/2 was rapidly reduced to 50% of control levels, and a high non-photochemical chlorophyll fluorescence quenching was maintained. (13)C-labeling revealed that daily assimilated carbon accumulated in glycolate, leading to reduced carbon allocation to sugars, organic acids, and amino acids. Such changes were not always mirrored in leaf total metabolite levels, since many soluble amino acids increased after transfer, while total soluble protein, RuBisCO (ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase), and chlorophyll amounts decreased in amiRgox1/2 plants. The senescence marker, SAG12, was induced only in amiRgox1/2 rosettes after transfer to air. The expression of maize photorespiratory GOX in amiRgox1/2 abolished all observed phenotypes. The results indicate that the inhibition of the photorespiratory cycle negatively impacts photosynthesis, alters carbon allocation, and leads to early senescence in old rosette leaves.	Arabidopsis;carbon allocation;mutant;photorespiration;photosynthesis;senescence.
MicroRNA-146a Induces Lineage-Negative Bone Marrow Cell Apoptosis and Senescence by Targeting Polo-Like Kinase 2 Expression	S. Deng, et al.	2017	27908889	OBJECTIVE: Lineage-negative bone marrow cells (lin- BMCs) are enriched in endothelial progenitor cells and mediate vascular repair. Aging-associated senescence and apoptosis result in reduced number and functionality of lin- BMCs, impairing their prorepair capacity. The molecular mechanisms underlying lin- BMC senescence and apoptosis are poorly understood. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate many important biological processes. The identification of miRNA-mRNA networks that modulate the health and functionality of lin- BMCs is a critical step in understanding the process of vascular repair. The aim of this study was to characterize the role of the miR-146a-Polo-like kinase 2 (Plk2) network in regulating lin- BMC senescence, apoptosis, and their angiogenic capability. APPROACH AND RESULTS: Transcriptome analysis in lin- BMCs isolated from young and aged wild-type and ApoE-/- (apolipoprotein E) mice showed a significant age-associated increase in miR-146a expression. In silico analysis, expression study and Luciferase reporter assay established Plk2 as a direct target of miR-146a. miR-146a overexpression in young lin- BMCs inhibited Plk2 expression, resulting in increased senescence and apoptosis, via p16Ink4a/p19Arf and p53, respectively, as well as impaired angiogenic capacity in vitro and in vivo. Conversely, suppression of miR-146a in aged lin- BMCs increased Plk2 expression and rejuvenated lin- BMCs, resulting in decreased senescence and apoptosis, leading to improved angiogenesis. CONCLUSIONS: (1) miR-146a regulates lin- BMC senescence and apoptosis by suppressing Plk2 expression that, in turn, activates p16Ink4a/p19Arf and p53 and (2) modulation of miR-146a or its target Plk2 may represent a potential therapeutic intervention to improve lin- BMC-mediated angiogenesis and vascular repair.	apoptosis;cardiovascular diseases;mice;microRNAs;progenitor cells
[beta-amyloid peptide deposition and expression of related miRNAs in the cerebellum of a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease]	Y. Deng, et al.	2014	24670442	OBJECTIVE: To investigate the presence of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) deposition in the cerebellum and the expression of related miRNAs in the cerebellum of a mouse model of Alzheimer disease. METHODS: Twelve 12-month-old APPswe/PSdeltaE9 double transgenic mice and 12 wild-type C57 mice were sacrificed and the brain tissues were taken for examination. The right hemisphere was stained with Congo red to observe the deposition of amyloid substances, and from the left hemisphere, the hippocampus and the cerebellum were dissected for detecting the expression of miRNA-135a-5p, miRNA-298-5p, miRNA-466b-3p and miR-669f-3p using real-time PCR. RESULTS: Congo red staining revealed the presence of Abeta deposition in both the hippocampus and the cerebellum of the transgenic mice but not in the control mice. Real-time PCR showed a significantly lower expression of the 4 miRNAs in the hippocampus in the transgenic mice than in the control mice (P<0.05). The expression of miRNA-135a-5p, miRNA-298-5p, and miR-669f-3p in the cerebellum was significantly lower in the transgenic mice than in the control mice (P<0.05). The expression of miRNA-298-5p and miR-669f-3p in the hippocampus was significantly lower than that in the cerebellum of the transgenic mice (P<0.05). CONCLUSION: beta deposition also occurs in the cerebellum of APPswe/PSdeltaE9 double transgenic mice, and its formation might be related to the down-regulation of miRNA-135a-5p, miRNA-298-5p, and miR-669f-3p.	Alzheimer Disease/ metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ metabolism;Animals;Cerebellum/ metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Hippocampus/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ metabolism
MicroRNA Profiling of CSF Reveals Potential Biomarkers to Detect Alzheimer`s Disease	J. Denk, et al.	2015	25992776	The miRBase-21 database currently lists 1881 microRNA (miRNA) precursors and 2585 unique mature human miRNAs. Since their discovery, miRNAs have proved to present a new level of epigenetic post-transcriptional control of protein synthesis. Initial results point to a possible involvement of miRNA in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We applied OpenArray technology to profile the expression of 1178 unique miRNAs in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples of AD patients (n = 22) and controls (n = 28). Using a Cq of 34 as cut-off, we identified positive signals for 441 miRNAs, while 729 miRNAs could not be detected, indicating that at least 37% of miRNAs are present in the brain. We found 74 miRNAs being down- and 74 miRNAs being up-regulated in AD using a 1.5 fold change threshold. By applying the new explorative "Measure of relevance" method, 6 reliable and 9 informative biomarkers were identified. Confirmatory MANCOVA revealed reliable miR-100, miR-146a and miR-1274a as differentially expressed in AD reaching Bonferroni corrected significance. MANCOVA also confirmed differential expression of informative miR-103, miR-375, miR-505#, miR-708, miR-4467, miR-219, miR-296, miR-766 and miR-3622b-3p. Discrimination analysis using a combination of miR-100, miR-103 and miR-375 was able to detect AD in CSF by positively classifying controls and AD cases with 96.4% and 95.5% accuracy, respectively. Referring to the Ingenuity database we could identify a set of AD associated genes that are targeted by these miRNAs. Highly predicted targets included genes involved in the regulation of tau and amyloid pathways in AD like MAPT, BACE1 and mTOR.	Aged;Alzheimer Disease/cerebrospinal fluid/ diagnosis/ genetics/pathology;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/cerebrospinal fluid/genetics;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/cerebrospinal fluid/genetics;Biomarkers/cerebrospinal fluid;Discriminant Analysis;Epigenesis, Genetic;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/cerebrospinal fluid/ genetics;Middle Aged;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Signal Transduction;TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases/cerebrospinal fluid/genetics;tau Proteins/cerebrospinal fluid/genetics
p53-based anti-cancer therapies: An empty promise?	N. Desilet, et al.	2010	19918091	Since its discovery in 1979, p53 has become the focus of intensive cancer-based research in laboratories around the world. The p53 protein mediates critical cellular functions including the response to genotoxic stress, differentiation, senescence, and apoptosis, and has been shown to be mutated in a large proportion of human cancers. These observations led many to speculate that targeting the p53 pathway would result in the development of successful anti-cancer treatments. In spite of this, 30 years later, p53 has yet to fulfill this promise. However, new insights into small molecule combination therapies, microRNA regulation, structuring of clinical trials, and potential involvement in stem cell regulation may help p53 reach its potential.	Animals;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Neoplasms/ therapy;Signal Transduction;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ metabolism
Increase in NF-kappaB-sensitive miRNA-146a and miRNA-155 in multiple sclerosis (MS) and pro-inflammatory neurodegeneration	D. J. Devier, et al.	2015	25784854		NF-kB (p50/p65);autoimmunity;degeneration;inflammation;miRNA-146a;miRNA-155;microRNA (miRNA);multiple sclerosis
Deep sequencing reveals novel microRNAs and regulation of microRNA expression during cell senescence	J. M. Dhahbi, et al.	2011	21637828	In cell senescence, cultured cells cease proliferating and acquire aberrant gene expression patterns. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) modulate gene expression through translational repression or mRNA degradation and have been implicated in senescence. We used deep sequencing to carry out a comprehensive survey of miRNA expression and involvement in cell senescence. Informatic analysis of small RNA sequence datasets from young and senescent IMR90 human fibroblasts identifies many miRNAs that are regulated (either up or down) with cell senescence. Comparison with mRNA expression profiles reveals potential mRNA targets of these senescence-regulated miRNAs. The target mRNAs are enriched for genes involved in biological processes associated with cell senescence. This result greatly extends existing information on the role of miRNAs in cell senescence and is consistent with miRNAs having a causal role in the process.	Biological Phenomena/genetics;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cluster Analysis;Databases, Genetic;Down-Regulation/genetics;Fibroblasts/ cytology/ metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing/ methods;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Annotation;Up-Regulation/genetics
MicroRNAs Circulate in the Hemolymph of Drosophila and Accumulate Relative to Tissue microRNAs in an Age-Dependent Manner	J. M. Dhahbi, et al.	2016	27042094	In mammals, extracellular miRNAs circulate in biofluids as stable entities that are secreted by normal and diseased tissues, and can enter cells and regulate gene expression. Drosophila melanogaster is a proven system for the study of human diseases. They have an open circulatory system in which hemolymph (HL) circulates in direct contact with all internal organs, in a manner analogous to vertebrate blood plasma. Here, we show using deep sequencing that Drosophila HL contains RNase-resistant circulating miRNAs (HL-miRNAs). Limited subsets of body tissue miRNAs (BT-miRNAs) accumulated in HL, suggesting that they may be specifically released from cells or particularly stable in HL. Alternatively, they might arise from specific cells, such as hemocytes, that are in intimate contact with HL. Young and old flies accumulated unique populations of HL-miRNAs, suggesting that their accumulation is responsive to the physiological status of the fly. These HL-miRNAs in flies may function similar to the miRNAs circulating in mammalian biofluids. The discovery of these HL-miRNAs will provide a new venue for health and disease-related research in Drosophila.	Drosophila;aging;circulating microRNA;hemolymph;microRNA sequencing
Deep sequencing identifies circulating mouse miRNAs that are functionally implicated in manifestations of aging and responsive to calorie restriction	J. M. Dhahbi, et al.	2013	23470454	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) function to modulate gene expression, and through this property they regulate a broad spectrum of cellular processes. They can circulate in blood and thereby mediate cell-to-cell communication. Aging involves changes in many cellular processes that are potentially regulated by miRNAs, and some evidence has implicated circulating miRNAs in the aging process. In order to initiate a comprehensive assessment of the role of circulating miRNAs in aging, we have used deep sequencing to characterize circulating miRNAs in the serum of young mice, old mice, and old mice maintained on calorie restriction (CR). Deep sequencing identifies a set of novel miRNAs, and also accurately measures all known miRNAs present in serum. This analysis demonstrates that the levels of many miRNAs circulating in the mouse are increased with age, and that the increases can be antagonized by CR. The genes targeted by this set of age-modulated miRNAs are predicted to regulate biological processes directly relevant to the manifestations of aging including metabolic changes, and the miRNAs themselves have been linked to diseases associated with old age. This finding implicates circulating miRNAs in the aging process, raising questions about their tissues of origin, their cellular targets, and their functional role in metabolic changes that occur with aging.	Aging/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Caloric Restriction/ methods;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing/ methods;Mice;MicroRNAs/blood/ genetics/metabolism
SIRT1 signalling protects mouse oocytes against oxidative stress and is deregulated during aging	G. Di Emidio, et al.	2014	24963165	STUDY QUESTION: Is SIRT1 involved in the oxidative stress (OS) response in mouse oocytes? SUMMARY ANSWER: SIRT1 plays a pivotal role in the adaptive response of mouse germinal vesicle (GV) oocytes to OS and promotes a signalling cascade leading to up-regulation of the MnSod gene. WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: OS is known to continuously threaten acquisition and maintenance of oocyte developmental potential during in vivo processes and in vitro manipulations. Previous studies in somatic cells have provided strong evidence for the role of SIRT1 as a sensor of the cell redox state and a protector against OS and aging. STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: GV oocytes obtained from young (4-8 weeks) and reproductively old (48-52 weeks) CD1 mice were blocked in the prophase stage by 0.5 microM cilostamide. Groups of 30 oocytes were exposed to 25 microM H2O2 and processed following different times for the analysis of intracellular localization of SIRT1 and FOXO3A, and evaluation of Sirt1, miRNA-132, FoxO3a and MnSod gene expression. Another set of oocytes was cultured in the presence or absence of the SIRT1-specific inhibitor Ex527, and exposed to H2O2 in order to assess the involvement of SIRT1 in the activation of a FoxO3a-MnSod axis and ROS detoxification. In the last part of this study, GV oocytes were maturated in vitro in the presence of different Ex527 concentrations (0, 2.5, 5, 10, 20 microM) and assessed for maturation rates following 16 h. Effects of Ex527 on spindle morphology and ROS levels were also evaluated. PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: SIRT1 and FOXO3A intracellular distribution in response to OS was investigated by immunocytochemistry. Real-time RT-PCR was employed to analyse Sirt1, miR-132, FoxO3a and MnSod gene expression. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) production was evaluated by in vivo measurement of carboxy-H2DCF diacetate labelling. Spindle and chromosomal distribution in in vitro matured oocytes were analysed by immunocytochemistry and DNA fluorescent labelling, respectively. MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: Specific changes in the intracellular localization of SIRT1 and up-regulation of Sirt1 gene were detected in mouse oocytes in response to OS. Moreover, increased intracellular ROS were observed when SIRT1 activity was inhibited by Ex527. In aged oocytes Sirt1 was expressed more than in young oocytes but SIRT1 protein was undetectable. Upon OS, significant changes in miR-132 micro-RNA, a validated Sirt1 modulator, were observed. A negative correlation between Sirt1 mRNA and miR-132 levels was observed when young oocytes exposed to OS were compared with young control oocytes, and when aged oocytes were compared with young control oocytes. FoxO3a and MnSod transcripts were increased upon OS with the same kinetics as Sirt1 transcripts, and up-regulation of MnSod gene was prevented by oocyte treatment with Ex527, indicating that SIRT1 acts upstream to the FoxO3a-MnSod axis. Finally, the results of the in vitro maturation assay suggested that SIRT1 might be involved in oocyte maturation by regulating the redox state and ensuring normal spindle assembly. LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: The main limitation of this study was the absence of direct quantification of SIRT1 enzymatic activity due to the lack of an appropriately sensitive method. WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: The present findings may provide a valuable background for studying the regulation of SIRT1 during oogenesis and its relevance as a sensor of oocyte redox state and energy status. The antioxidant response orchestrated by SIRT1 in oocytes seems to decrease with aging. This suggests that SIRT1 could be an excellent pharmacological target for improving oocyte quality and IVF outcome in aging or aging-like diseases. STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTERESTS: The work was supported by the Ministero dell'Universita e della Ricerca Scientifica (MIUR) to C.T., F.A., C.D., A.M.D. The authors declare no conflict of interest.	Animals;Carbazoles/pharmacology;Female;Forkhead Box Protein O3;Forkhead Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;Hydrogen Peroxide/pharmacology;Mice, Inbred Strains;Oocytes/drug effects/ growth & development;Oxidative Stress;Signal Transduction;Sirtuin 1/analysis/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ physiology;Superoxide Dismutase/genetics/metabolism;Time Factors;Sirt1;miRNA;oocyte aging;sirtuins
Myomir dysregulation and reactive oxygen species in aged human satellite cells	E. S. Di Filippo, et al.	2016	26975470	Satellite cells that reside on the myofibre surface are crucial for the muscle homeostasis and regeneration. Aging goes along with a less effective regeneration of skeletal muscle tissue mainly due to the decreased myogenic capability of satellite cells. This phenomenon impedes proper maintenance and contributes to the age-associated decline in muscle mass, known as sarcopenia. The myogenic potential impairment does not depend on a reduced myogenic cell number, but mainly on their difficulty to complete a differentiation program. The unbalanced production of reactive oxygen species in elderly people could be responsible for skeletal muscle impairments. microRNAs are conserved post-transcriptional regulators implicated in numerous biological processes including adult myogenesis. Here, we measure the ROS level and analyze myomiR (miR-1, miR-133b and miR-206) expression in human myogenic precursors obtained from Vastus lateralis of elderly and young subjects to provide the molecular signature responsible for the differentiation impairment of elderly activated satellite cells.	Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging;Cells, Cultured;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Muscle Development;Reactive Oxygen Species/ metabolism;Sarcopenia/genetics/metabolism;Satellite Cells, Skeletal Muscle/cytology/ metabolism;Young Adult;Human satellite cells;Ros;Sarcopenia;myomiRNAs
Dysregulated post-transcriptional control of COX-2 gene expression in gestational diabetic endothelial cells	L. Di Francesco, et al.	2015	26140661	BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Hyperglycaemic memory describes the progression of diabetic complications during subsequent periods of improved glycaemia. We addressed the hypothesis that transient hyperglycaemia causes aberrant COX-2 expression in HUVEC in response to IL-1beta through the induction of long-lasting epigenetic changes involving microRNA-16 (miR-16), a post-transcriptional modulator of COX-2 expression. EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Studies were performed on HUVEC collected from women with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) (dHUVEC) and normal women (nHUVEC). KEY RESULTS: In dHUVEC treated with IL-1beta, the expression of COX-2 mRNA and protein was enhanced and generation of prostanoids increased (the most abundant was the promitogenic PGF2alpha ). COX-2 mRNA was more stable in dHUVEC and this was associated with miR-16 down-regulation and c-Myc induction (a suppressor of miR expression). dHUVEC showed increased proliferation in response to IL-1beta, which was prevented by a COX-2 inhibitor and PGF2alpha receptor antagonist. Comparable changes in COX-2 mRNA, miR-16 and c-Myc detected in dHUVEC were produced in nHUVEC exposed to transient high glucose and then stimulated with IL-1beta under physiological glucose levels; superoxide anion production was enhanced under these experimental conditions. CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: Our results describe a possible mechanism operating in GDM that links the enhanced superoxide anion production and epigenetic changes, associated with hyperglycaemic memory, to endothelial dysfunction through dysregulated post-transcriptional control of COX-2 gene expression in response to inflammatory stimuli. The association of conventional therapy for glycaemic control with agents affecting inflammatory responses and oxidative stress might lead to a more effective prevention of the complications associated with GDM.	
MicroRNAs as Therapeutic Targets for Alzheimer's Disease	A. Di Meco and D. Pratico	2016	27163828	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia in the elderly. With increasing longevity and the absence of a cure, AD has become not only a major health problem but also a heavy social and economic burden worldwide. Given this public health challenge, and that the current approved therapy for AD is limited to symptomatic treatment (i.e., cholinesterase inhibitors and NMDA receptor antagonists), exploration of new molecular pathways as novel therapeutic targets remains an attractive option for disease modifying drug development. microRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNA that control gene expression at the post-translational level by inhibiting translation of specific mRNAs or degrading them. Dysregulation of several miRNAs has been described in AD brains. Interestingly, their molecular targets are pathways that are well-established functional players in the onset and development of AD pathogenesis. Today several molecular tools have been developed to modulate miRNA levels in vitro and in vivo. These scientific advancements are affording us for the first time with the real possibility of targeting in vivo these dysregulated miRNAs as a novel therapeutic approach against AD.	Alzheimer's disease;amyloid-beta;microRNAs;neuroinflammation;tau;therapeutic target
MicroRNAs as Novel Biomarkers for the Diagnosis and Prognosis of Mild and Severe Traumatic Brain Injury	V. Di Pietro, et al.	2017	28279125	Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is the leading cause of death and disability in people younger than 45 in Western countries. Despite many studies, no reliable biomarkers have been found to assess TBI severity and predict recovery. MicroRNA (miRNA) profiling has become widely used to identify biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Through use of the TaqMan Array Human MicroRNA A+B Cards, the expression of 754 miRNAs was analyzed in serum of five mild TBI (mTBI) patients with extra-cranial injury (EC), five severe TBI (sTBI) patients with EC, and five healthy volunteers (HV) at 1 day and 15 days post-injury. The aim was to find candidate biomarkers able to discriminate between mTBI and sTBI. Following this, it was possible to select 10 miRNAs for further study in an enlarged validation cohort of 120 patients by using single TaqMan assays at the following time-points: T0-1 h, T4-12 h, T48-72 h, and 15 days from the injury. Analysis revealed two miRNAs (miR-425-5p and miR-502) that were significantly downregulated (p < 0.05) in mTBI at early time-points and are ideal candidates for diagnosis of mTBI, and two miRNAs (miR-21 and miR-335) that were significantly upregulated (p < 0.01) and are valid biomarkers for the diagnosis of sTBI. In addition, miR-425-5p was a strong predictor of 6-month outcome at T0-1 h and T4-12 h, while miR-21 was predictive of the outcome at T4-12 h. The panel of selected miRNAs shows promise as biomarkers to discriminate mTBI from sTBI. In addition, the selected miRNAs represent new potential therapeutic targets.	biomarkers;concussion;diagnosis;microRNAs;prognosis;traumatic brain injury
Probing tumor phenotypes using stable and regulated synthetic microRNA precursors	R. A. Dickins, et al.	2005	16200064	RNA interference is a powerful method for suppressing gene expression in mammalian cells. Stable knock-down can be achieved by continuous expression of synthetic short hairpin RNAs, typically from RNA polymerase III promoters. But primary microRNA transcripts, which are endogenous triggers of RNA interference, are normally synthesized by RNA polymerase II. Here we show that RNA polymerase II promoters expressing rationally designed primary microRNA-based short hairpin RNAs produce potent, stable and regulatable gene knock-down in cultured cells and in animals, even when present at a single copy in the genome. Most notably, by tightly regulating Trp53 knock-down using tetracycline-based systems, we show that cultured mouse fibroblasts can be switched between proliferative and senescent states and that tumors induced by Trp53 suppression and cooperating oncogenes regress upon re-expression of Trp53. In practice, this primary microRNA-based short hairpin RNA vector system is markedly similar to cDNA overexpression systems and is a powerful tool for studying gene function in cells and animals.	Animals;Cell Aging;Cell Proliferation;Fibroblasts/metabolism;Genetic Vectors;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neoplasms/ metabolism;Oncogenes;Phenotype;Promoter Regions, Genetic/genetics;Protein Synthesis Inhibitors/pharmacology;RNA Interference;RNA Polymerase II/ genetics;RNA, Small Interfering/ pharmacology;Tetracycline/pharmacology;Transcription, Genetic;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/metabolism
Common variant in GRN is a genetic risk factor for hippocampal sclerosis in the elderly	D. W. Dickson, et al.	2010	20197700	BACKGROUND: Hippocampal sclerosis (HpScl) is common in elderly subjects with dementia, either alone or accompanied by other pathologic processes. It is also found in >70% of frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP-43 immunoreactive inclusions (FTLD-TDP). TDP-43 inclusions are detected in >20% of Alzheimer disease (AD) and >70% of HpScl cases. The most common cause of FTLD-TDP is mutation in the progranulin gene (GRN). Recently, a common genetic variant in the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) of GRN (rs5848; c.*78C>T) located in a microRNA binding site regulated progranulin expression, and the T-allele was increased in FTLD-TDP compared to controls. OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study was to determine if the 3'UTR variant in GRN was associated with TDP-43 immunoreactivity in AD with and without HpScl. METHODS: 644 cases of pathologically confirmed AD, including 57 with HpScl, were screened for TDP-43 immunoreactivity and were genotyped at the GRN 3'UTR single-nucleotide polymorphism rs5848 using previously published methods. RESULTS: There was a trend (p = 0.06) for TDP-43 immunoreactivity, but a very significant (p = 0.005) association of HpScl with the variant, with 72% of AD with HpScl carrying a T-allele, compared to 51% of AD without HpScl carrying a T-allele. CONCLUSION: The results suggest that a genetic variant in GRN leading to decreased levels of progranulin may be a risk factor for HpScl in AD, while its role in TDP-43 immunoreactivity in AD remains less certain.	3' Untranslated Regions/ genetics;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/genetics/pathology;Alzheimer Disease/complications/ genetics/ pathology;DNA-Binding Proteins/metabolism;Female;Gene Frequency;Genotype;Hippocampus/ pathology;Humans;Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins/ genetics;Male;Risk Factors;Sclerosis/etiology/genetics
Alternative polyadenylation and miR-34 family members regulate tau expression	J. R. Dickson, et al.	2013	24032460	Tau pathologically aggregates in Alzheimer's disease, and evidence suggests that reducing tau expression may be safe and beneficial for the prevention or treatment of this disease. We sought to examine the role of the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of human tau mRNA in regulating tau expression. Tau expresses two 3'-UTR isoforms, long and short, as a result of alternative polyadenylation. Using luciferase reporter constructs, we found that expression from these isoforms is differentially controlled in human neuroblastoma cell lines M17D and SH-SY5Y. Several microRNAs were computationally identified as candidates that might bind the long, but not short, tau 3'-UTR isoform. A hit from a screen of candidates, miR-34a, was subsequently shown to repress the expression of endogenous tau protein in M17D cells. Conversely, inhibition of endogenously expressed miR-34 family members leads to increased endogenous tau expression. In addition, through an unbiased screen of fragments of the human tau 3'-UTR using a luciferase reporter assay, we identified several other regions in the long tau 3'-UTR isoform that contain regulatory cis-elements. Improved understanding of the regulation of tau expression by its 3'-UTR may ultimately lead to the development of novel therapeutic strategies for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other tauopathies. mRNA 3'-untranslated regions (3'-UTR) often regulate transcript stability or translation. Despite the centrality of the tau protein in Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative diseases, the human tau 3'-UTR has been little studied. This report identifies regions of the tau 3'-UTR that influence expression and shows that microRNA (miR)-34a targets this 3'-UTR to lower expression, which is considered an important therapeutic goal.	3' Untranslated Regions;Base Sequence;Cells, Cultured;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Polyadenylation;Protein Isoforms/genetics/metabolism;tau Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;3'-untranslated region;Alzheimer's disease;Mapt;gene regulation;neurodegenerative disease
Age-associated differential microRNA levels in human follicular fluid reveal pathways potentially determining fertility and success of in vitro fertilization	A. Diez-Fraile, et al.	2014	24684237	Reproductive life span and fertility have been shown to depend on successful early folliculogenesis, which involves cell-to-cell communication and the concerted regulation of gene expression at both the oocyte and granulosa cell levels. Recently, micro RNAs (miRNAs) were identified as fine-tuners of gene expression. Here, we report that miRNAs can readily be detected within membrane-enclosed vesicles of human follicular fluid. MiRNA expression profiling of the follicular fluid of younger (<31 years) and older (>38 years) women revealed a set of four differentially expressed miRNAs. The predicted targets of these miRNAs are clearly enriched in genes involved in heparan-sulfate biosynthesis, extracellular matrix-receptor interaction, carbohydrate digestion and absorption, p53 signaling, and cytokine-cytokine-receptor interaction. Several of these pathways have been reported to be determinants of fertility, suggesting that this set of miRNAs and their respective targets should be evaluated in relation to reproductive aging and assisted reproduction.	Adult;Age Factors;Female;Fertility/genetics/physiology;Follicular Fluid/cytology/ physiology;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Microscopy, Electron, Transmission;Oocytes/ physiology;Ovarian Follicle/ physiology;Prospective Studies;RNA/chemistry/genetics;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Secretory Vesicles/genetics/ physiology/ultrastructure;Statistics, Nonparametric;Fertility;functional genomics;reproduction
Supervised method for construction of microRNA-mRNA networks: application in cardiac tissue aging dataset	G. N. Dimitrakopoulos, et al.	2014	25569961	MicroRNAs play an important role in regulation of gene expression, but still detection of their targets remains a challenge. In this work we present a supervised regulatory network inference method with aim to identify potential target genes (mRNAs) of microRNAs. Briefly, the proposed method exploiting mRNA and microRNA expression trains Random Forests on known interactions and subsequently it is able to predict novel ones. In parallel, we incorporate different available data sources, such as Gene Ontology and ProteinProtein Interactions, to deliver biologically consistent results. Application in both benchmark data and an experiment studying aging showed robust performance.	Aging;Algorithms;Area Under Curve;Computational Biology;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;Gene Ontology;Heart/ physiology;Humans;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Models, Biological;Protein Interaction Mapping;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/genetics/ metabolism
Integromics network meta-analysis on cardiac aging offers robust multi-layer modular signatures and reveals micronome synergism	K. Dimitrakopoulou, et al.	2015	25887273	BACKGROUND: The avalanche of integromics and panomics approaches shifted the deciphering of aging mechanisms from single molecular entities to communities of them. In this orientation, we explore the cardiac aging mechanisms - risk factor for multiple cardiovascular diseases - by capturing the micronome synergism and detecting longevity signatures in the form of communities (modules). For this, we developed a meta-analysis scheme that integrates transcriptome expression data from multiple cardiac-specific independent studies in mouse and human along with proteome and micronome interaction data in the form of multiple independent weighted networks. Modularization of each weighted network produced modules, which in turn were further analyzed so as to define consensus modules across datasets that change substantially during lifespan. Also, we established a metric that determines - from the modular perspective - the synergism of microRNA-microRNA interactions as defined by significantly functionally associated targets. RESULTS: The meta-analysis provided 40 consensus integromics modules across mouse datasets and revealed microRNA relations with substantial collective action during aging. Three modules were reproducible, based on homology, when mapped against human-derived modules. The respective homologs mainly represent NADH dehydrogenases, ATP synthases, cytochrome oxidases, Ras GTPases and ribosomal proteins. Among various observations, we corroborate to the involvement of miR-34a (included in consensus modules) as proposed recently; yet we report that has no synergistic effect. Moving forward, we determined its age-related neighborhood in which HCN3, a known heart pacemaker channel, was included. Also, miR-125a-5p/-351, miR-200c/-429, miR-106b/-17, miR-363/-92b, miR-181b/-181d, miR-19a/-19b, let-7d/-7f, miR-18a/-18b, miR-128/-27b and miR-106a/-291a-3p pairs exhibited significant synergy and their association to aging and/or cardiovascular diseases is supported in many cases by a disease database and previous studies. On the contrary, we suggest that miR-22 has not substantial impact on heart longevity as proposed recently. CONCLUSIONS: We revised several proteins and microRNAs recently implicated in cardiac aging and proposed for the first time modules as signatures. The integromics meta-analysis approach can serve as an efficient subvening signature tool for more-oriented better-designed experiments. It can also promote the combinational multi-target microRNA therapy of age-related cardiovascular diseases along the continuum from prevention to detection, diagnosis, treatment and outcome.	Aging/ genetics/pathology;Animals;Cardiovascular Diseases/ genetics/pathology;Gene Regulatory Networks;Heart/physiopathology;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Transcriptome/ genetics
microRNA-141 regulates BMI1 expression and induces senescence in human diploid fibroblasts	M. Dimri, et al.	2013	24091627	Polycomb group protein BMI1 is an important regulator of senescence, aging, and cancer. On one hand, it is overexpressed in cancer cells and is required for self-renewal of stem cells. On the other hand, it is downregulated during senescence and aging. MicroRNAs have emerged as major regulators of almost every gene associated with cancer, aging, and related pathologies. At present, very little is known about the miRNAs that regulate the expression of BMI1. Here, we report that miR-141 posttranscriptionally downregulates BMI1 expression in human diploid fibroblasts (HDFs) via a miR-141 targeting sequence in the 3' untranslated region of BMI1 mRNA. We also show that overexpression of miR-141 induces premature senescence in HDFs via targeting of BMI1 in normal but not in exogenous BMI1-overexpressing HDFs. Induction of premature senescence in HDFs was accompanied by upregulation of p16INK4a, an important downstream target of BMI1 and a major regulator of senescence. Our results suggest that miR-141-based therapies could be developed to treat pathologies where BMI1 is deregulated.	Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Line;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p16/genetics/metabolism;Diploidy;Down-Regulation;Fibroblasts/ physiology;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Polycomb Repressive Complex 1/genetics/ metabolism;Retinoblastoma Protein/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Up-Regulation;Bmi1;aging;miR-141;microRNA;polycomb group proteins;senescence
PLK1 inhibition down-regulates polycomb group protein BMI1 via modulation of the miR-200c/141 cluster	M. Dimri, et al.	2015	25505268	The polycomb group protein BMI1 is an important regulator of cancer stem cell (CSC) phenotype and is often overexpressed in cancer cells. Its overexpression leads to increase in CSC fraction and therapy resistance in tumors. BMI1 functions via polycomb repressive complex 1 (PRC1)-mediated gene silencing and also via PRC1-independent transcriptional activities. At present, very little is known about the therapy reagents that can efficiently inhibit BMI1 expression, and the CSC phenotype. Here, we report that the polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) regulates BMI1 expression, and that its inhibition can efficiently down-regulate BMI1 expression and PRC1 activity, and induce premature senescence in breast cancer cells. We also show that the exogenous BMI1 overexpression mitigates anti-oncogenic effects of PLK1 inhibition and overcomes senescence induction by PLK1 inhibitors. We further show that PLK1 inhibition down-regulates BMI1 by upregulating the miRNA-200c/141 cluster, which encodes miR-200c and miR-141, both of which are known to post-transcriptionally downregulate BMI1 expression. Thus, our data suggest that PLK1 inhibitors can be successfully used to inhibit growth of tumors in which PcG protein BMI1 is overexpressed or the PRC1 activity is deregulated.	Blotting, Western;Cell Cycle Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Cell Line, Tumor;Female;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Polycomb Repressive Complex 1/genetics/ metabolism;Protein Binding;Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases/genetics/ metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Breast Cancer;Cancer Biology;Cell Growth;Cellular Regulation;Cellular Senescence;Gene Regulation;Polycomb;microRNA (miRNA)
A miR-200c/141-BMI1 autoregulatory loop regulates oncogenic activity of BMI1 in cancer cells	M. Dimri, et al.	2016	27105531	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are known to function as oncomiRs or tumor suppressors and are important noncoding RNA regulators of oncogenesis. The miR-200c/141 locus on chromosome 12 encodes miR-200c and miR-141, two members of the miR-200 family, which have been shown to function as tumor suppressive miRNAs by targeting multiple oncogenic factors such as polycomb group protein BMI1. Here, we show that BMI1 reciprocally functions as a transcriptional repressor of the miR-200c/141 cluster and that BMI1 inhibitors upregulate expression of miR-200c and miR-141. Our data suggest that BMI1 binds to the miR-200c/141 promoter and regulates it through transcription factor binding motifs E-box 2 and Z-box 1 to repress expression of miR-200c/141 cluster. We also show that PTC-209, a small molecule inhibitor of BMI1 gene expression induces cellular senescence and transcriptionally upregulates expression of miR-200c/141 cluster in breast cancer cells. Furthermore, inhibition of expression of miR-200c or miR-141 overcomes tumor suppressive effects of PTC-209 including induction of cellular senescence and downregulation of breast cancer stem cell phenotype. Therefore, our studies suggest a reciprocal regulation between BMI1 and miR-200c/141 cluster, and that BMI1 inhibitory drugs can further amplify their inhibitory effects on BMI1 via multiple mechanisms including posttranscriptional regulation by upregulating BMI1 targeting miRNAs.	Bmi1;breast cancer;miR-141;microRNA;senescence
miR-155 drives telomere fragility in human breast cancer by targeting TRF1	R. Dinami, et al.	2014	24876105	Telomeres consist of DNA tandem repeats that recruit the multiprotein complex shelterin to build a chromatin structure that protects chromosome ends. Although cancer formation is linked to alterations in telomere homeostasis, there is little understanding of how shelterin function is limited in cancer cells. Using a small-scale screening approach, we identified miR-155 as a key regulator in breast cancer cell expression of the shelterin component TERF1 (TRF1). miR-155 targeted a conserved sequence motif in the 3'UTR of TRF1, resulting in its translational repression. miR-155 was upregulated commonly in breast cancer specimens, as associated with reduced TRF1 protein expression, metastasis-free survival, and relapse-free survival in estrogen receptor-positive cases. Modulating miR-155 expression in cells altered TRF1 levels and TRF1 abundance at telomeres. Compromising TRF1 expression by elevating miR-155 increased telomere fragility and altered the structure of metaphase chromosomes. In contrast, reducing miR-155 levels improved telomere function and genomic stability. These results implied that miR-155 upregulation antagonizes telomere integrity in breast cancer cells, increasing genomic instability linked to poor clinical outcome in estrogen receptor-positive disease. Our work argued that miRNA-dependent regulation of shelterin function has a clinically significant impact on telomere function, suggesting the existence of "telo-miRNAs" that have an impact on cancer and aging.	3' Untranslated Regions;Animals;Base Sequence;Breast Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism;Cell Culture Techniques;Female;HCT116 Cells;HeLa Cells;Humans;MCF-7 Cells;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid;Telomere/ genetics/metabolism;Telomeric Repeat Binding Protein 1/ genetics/metabolism;Transfection
Identification of a panel of five serum miRNAs as a biomarker for Parkinson's disease	H. Ding, et al.	2016	26631952	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common age-related neurodegenerative disorder after Alzheimer's disease. The aim of this work was to determine whether the differences of serum miRNAs profiling could distinguish PD patients from healthy individuals. METHODS: We collected serum samples from 106 sporadic PD patients and 91 age/gender-matched healthy controls. Serum miRNAs were analysed by Solexa sequencing followed by a qRT-PCR examination. The qRT-PCR assay, which was divided into two phases, was used to validate the expression of miRNAs screened by Solexa sequencing. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis and clustering analysis were performed to determine the diagnostic usefulness of the selected miRNAs for PD. RESULTS: In this study, we generated a profile of 5 serum miRNAs: miR-195 was up-regulated, and miR-185, miR-15b, miR-221 and miR-181a were down-regulated. CONCLUSION: This group of five miRNAs can precisely distinguish PD patients from health individuals and may be used as a potential serum-based biomarker for the diagnosis of PD.	Adult;Aged;Area Under Curve;Biomarkers/blood;Case-Control Studies;Down-Regulation;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood;Middle Aged;Parkinson Disease/ blood/diagnosis;ROC Curve;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Sensitivity and Specificity;Transcriptome;Up-Regulation;Parkinson's disease;Serum miRNA
miR-30e targets IGF2-regulated osteogenesis in bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells, aortic smooth muscle cells, and ApoE-/- mice	W. Ding, et al.	2015	25678587	AIMS: Activation of an osteogenic transcriptional program contributes to the initiation of aortic calcification in atherosclerosis. The role of microRNAs in regulating aortic calcification is understudied. We tested the hypothesis that miR-30e regulates an osteogenic program in bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), aortic smooth muscle cells (SMCs), and ApoE(-/-) mice. METHODS AND RESULTS: In aortas of wild-type mice, we found that miR-30e is highly expressed in medial SMCs. In aortas of old ApoE(-/-) mice, we found that miR-30e transcripts are down-regulated in an inverse relation to the osteogenic markers Runx2, Opn, and Igf2. In vitro, miR-30e over-expression reduced the proliferation of MSCs and SMCs while increasing adipogenic differentiation of MSCs and smooth muscle differentiation of SMCs. In MSCs and SMCs over-expressing miR-30e, microarrays and qPCR showed repression of an osteogenic gene panel including Igf2. Inhibiting miR-30e in MSCs increased Igf2 transcripts. In SMCs, IGF2 recombinant protein rescued miR-30e-repressed osteogenic differentiation. Luciferase and mutagenesis assays showed binding of miR-30e to a novel and essential site at the 3'UTR of Igf2. In ApoE(-/-) mice, injections of antimiR-30e oligos increased Igf2 expression in the aortas and livers and significantly enhanced OPN protein expression and calcium deposition in aortic valves. CONCLUSION: miR-30e represses the osteogenic program in MSCs and SMCs by targeting IGF2 and drives their differentiation into adipogenic or smooth muscle lineage, respectively. Our data suggest that down-regulation of miR-30e in aortas with age and atherosclerosis triggers vascular calcification. The miR-30e pathway plays an important regulatory role in vascular diseases.	Aging/physiology;Animals;Aorta/cytology;Apolipoproteins E/ deficiency/genetics/physiology;Bone Marrow Cells/cytology;Calcinosis/physiopathology;Cell Differentiation/physiology;Cells, Cultured;Disease Models, Animal;Down-Regulation/physiology;Insulin-Like Growth Factor II/ physiology;Male;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/cytology/ physiology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Muscle, Smooth, Vascular/cytology/ physiology;Osteogenesis/ physiology;Calcification;Mesenchymal stem cells;MicroRNA-30e;Osteogenesis;Smooth muscle cells
[Expression profile of miRNAs in APP swe/PSDeltaE9 transgenic mice]	Y. Ding, et al.	2012	22985563	OBJECTIVE: To observe the changes of miRNA expression profiles in APPswe/PSdeltaE9 transgenic mice and explore the possible roles of miRNA in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. METHODS: Using miRNA chip technique, we examined the miRNA expression in the brain tissue of 6-month-old APPswe/PSdeltaE9 transgenic mice, with age-matched wild-type mice as the control group. RESULTS: Twelve miRNAs showed differential expressions by more than two folds in APPswe/PSdeltaE9 transgenic mice, namely miRNA-135a, miRNA-135a-2*, miRNA-298, miRNA-466b-3p, miR-669-3p, miR-142-5p, miR-144, miR-466f-3p, miR-466g, miR-200a, miR-200b and miR-96. Five miRNAs were significantly down-regulated in the transgenic mice, including miRNA-135a, miRNA-135a-2*, miRNA-298, miRNA-466b-3p, and miR-669-3p. CONCLUSION: The 5 down- regulated miRNA may play important roles in the pathogenesis of AD in APPswe/PSdeltaE9 transgenic mice.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression Profiling;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Transcriptome
Regulation of Skeletal Muscle by microRNAs	G. P. Diniz and D. Z. Wang	2016	27347893	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of small noncoding RNAs highly conserved across species. miRNAs regulate gene expression posttranscriptionally by base pairing to complementary sequences mainly in the 3'-untranslated region of their target mRNAs to induce mRNA cleavage and translational repression. Thousands of miRNAs have been identified in human and their function has been linked to the regulation of both physiological and pathological processes. The skeletal muscle is the largest human organ responsible for locomotion, posture, and body metabolism. Several conditions such as aging, immobilization, exercise, and diet are associated with alterations in skeletal muscle structure and function. The genetic and molecular pathways that regulate muscle development, function, and regeneration as well as muscular disease have been well established in past decades. In recent years, numerous studies have underlined the importance of miRNAs in the control of skeletal muscle development and function, through its effects on several biological pathways critical for skeletal muscle homeostasis. Furthermore, it has become clear that alteration of the expression of many miRNAs or genetic mutations of miRNA genes is associated with changes on myogenesis and on progression of several skeletal muscle diseases. The present review provides an overview of the current studies and recent progress in elucidating the complex role exerted by miRNAs on skeletal muscle physiology and pathology. (c) 2016 American Physiological Society. Compr Physiol 6:1279-1294, 2016.	
Sphingolipid-Enriched Extracellular Vesicles and Alzheimer's Disease: A Decade of Research	M. B. Dinkins, et al.	2016	27662306	Extracellular vesicles (EVs), particularly exosomes, have emerged in the last 10 years as a new player in the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) with high potential for being useful as a diagnostic and treatment tool. Exosomes and other EVs are enriched with the sphingolipid ceramide as well as other more complex glycosphingolipids such as gangliosides. At least a subpopulation of exosomes requires neutral sphingomyelinase activity for their biogenesis and secretion. As ceramide is often elevated in AD, exosome secretion may be affected as well. Here, we review the available data showing that exosomes regulate the aggregation and clearance of amyloid-beta (Abeta) and discuss the differences in data from laboratories regarding Abeta binding, induction of aggregation, and glial clearance. We also summarize available data on the role of exosomes in extracellular tau propagation, AD-related exosomal mRNA/miRNA cargo, and the use of exosomes as biomarker and gene therapy vehicles for diagnosis and potential treatment.	Alzheimer's disease;amyloid;biomarker;ceramide;exosome;miRNA;sphingomyelinase;tau;vesicle
miR-34 miRNAs Regulate Cellular Senescence in Type II Alveolar Epithelial Cells of Patients with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis	S. Disayabutr, et al.	2016	27362652	Pathologic features of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) include genetic predisposition, activation of the unfolded protein response, telomere attrition, and cellular senescence. The mechanisms leading to alveolar epithelial cell (AEC) senescence are poorly understood. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been reported as regulators of cellular senescence. Senescence markers including p16, p21, p53, and senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-betagal) activity were measured in type II AECs from IPF lungs and unused donor lungs. miRNAs were quantified in type II AECs using gene expression arrays and quantitative RT-PCR. Molecular markers of senescence (p16, p21, and p53) were elevated in IPF type II AECs. SA-betagal activity was detected in a greater percentage in type II AECs isolated from IPF patients (23.1%) compared to patients with other interstitial lung diseases (1.2%) or normal controls (0.8%). The relative levels of senescence-associated miRNAs miR-34a, miR-34b, and miR-34c, but not miR-20a, miR-29c, or miR-let-7f were significantly higher in type II AECs from IPF patients. Overexpression of miR-34a, miR-34b, or miR-34c in lung epithelial cells was associated with higher SA-betagal activity (27.8%, 35.1%, and 38.2%, respectively) relative to control treated cells (8.8%). Targets of miR-34 miRNAs, including E2F1, c-Myc, and cyclin E2, were lower in IPF type II AECs. These results show that markers of senescence are uniquely elevated in IPF type II AECs and suggest that the miR-34 family of miRNAs regulate senescence in IPF type II AECs.	
Human aqueous humor exosomes	W. M. Dismuke, et al.	2015	25619138	Aqueous humor (AH) is a dynamic intraocular fluid that supports the vitality of tissues that regulate intraocular pressure. We recently discovered that extracellular nanovesicles called exosomes are a major constituent of AH. Exosomes function in extracellular communication and contain proteins and small RNA. Our goal was to characterize the physical properties of AH exosomes and their exosomal RNA (esRNA) content. We isolated exosomes from human AH collected during cataract surgery from five patients using serial ultracentrifugation. We measured the size and concentration of AH exosomes in solution using nanoparticle tracking analysis. We found a single population of vesicles having a mean size of 121 +/- 11 nm in the unprocessed AH. Data show that centrifugation does not significantly affect the mean particle size (121 +/- 11 nm versus 124 +/- 21 nm), but does impact the final number of exosomes in solution (87% loss from the unprocessed AH; n = 5). We extracted esRNA from the pooled human AH samples using miRCURY RNA isolation kit from Exiqon. The quality of extracted esRNA was evaluated using Agilent Bioanalyzer 2100 and was used to generate a sequencing library for small RNA sequencing with Illumina MiSeq sequencer. More than 10 different miRNAs were identified; abundant species included miR-486-5p, miR-204, and miR-184. We found that the majority of extracellular vesicles in the AH were in the exosome size range, suggesting that miRNAs housed within exosomes may function in communication between AH inflow and outflow tissues.	Aqueous Humor/ cytology;Exosomes/ genetics/ ultrastructure;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ isolation & purification;Ultracentrifugation;Aqueous humor;Exosomal RNA;Exosome;Glaucoma;miRNA
Age-Associated Decrease of the Histone Methyltransferase SUV39H1 in HSC Perturbs Heterochromatin and B Lymphoid Differentiation	D. Djeghloul, et al.	2016	27304919	The capacity of hematopoietic stem cells (HSC) to generate B lymphocytes declines with age, contributing to impaired immune function in the elderly. Here we show that the histone methyltransferase SUV39H1 plays an important role in human B lymphoid differentiation and that expression of SUV39H1 decreases with age in both human and mouse HSC, leading to a global reduction in H3K9 trimethylation and perturbed heterochromatin function. Further, we demonstrate that SUV39H1 is a target of microRNA miR-125b, a known regulator of HSC function, and that expression of miR-125b increases with age in human HSC. Overexpression of miR-125b and inhibition of SUV39H1 in young HSC induced loss of B cell potential. Conversely, both inhibition of miR-125 and enforced expression of SUV39H1 improved the capacity of HSC from elderly individuals to generate B cells. Our findings highlight the importance of heterochromatin regulation in HSC aging and B lymphopoiesis.	
MicroRNAs Modulate Oxidative Stress in Hypertension through PARP-1 Regulation	D. F. Dluzen, et al.	2017	28660007	Oxidative stress is thought to contribute to aging and age-related diseases, such as cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases, and is a risk factor for systemic arterial hypertension. Previously, we reported differential mRNA and microRNA (miRNA) expression between African American (AA) and white women with hypertension. Here, we found that the poly-(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP-1), a DNA damage sensor protein involved in DNA repair and other cellular processes, is upregulated in AA women with hypertension. To explore this mechanism, we identified two miRNAs, miR-103a-2-5p and miR-585-5p, that are differentially expressed with hypertension and were predicted to target PARP1. Through overexpression of each miRNA-downregulated PARP-1 mRNA and protein levels and using heterologous luciferase reporter assays, we demonstrate that miR-103a-2-5p and miR-585-5p regulate PARP1 through binding within the coding region. Given the important role of PARP-1 in DNA repair, we assessed whether overexpression of miR-103a-2-5p or miR-585-5p affected DNA damage and cell survival. Overexpression of these miRNAs enhanced DNA damage and decreased both cell survival and colony formation. These findings highlight the role for PARP-1 in regulating oxidative DNA damage in hypertension and identify important new miRNA regulators of PARP-1 expression. These insights may provide additional avenues to understand hypertension health disparities.	
Racial differences in microRNA and gene expression in hypertensive women	D. F. Dluzen, et al.	2016	27779208	Systemic arterial hypertension is an important cause of cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality. African Americans are disproportionately affected by hypertension, in fact the incidence, prevalence, and severity of hypertension is highest among African American (AA) women. Previous data suggests that differential gene expression influences individual susceptibility to selected diseases and we hypothesized that this phenomena may affect health disparities in hypertension. Transcriptional profiling of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from AA or white, normotensive or hypertensive females identified thousands of mRNAs differentially-expressed by race and/or hypertension. Predominant gene expression differences were observed in AA hypertensive females compared to AA normotensives or white hypertensives. Since microRNAs play important roles in regulating gene expression, we profiled global microRNA expression and observed differentially-expressed microRNAs by race and/or hypertension. We identified novel mRNA-microRNA pairs potentially involved in hypertension-related pathways and differently-expressed, including MCL1/miR-20a-5p, APOL3/miR-4763-5p, PLD1/miR-4717-3p, and PLD1/miR-4709-3p. We validated gene expression levels via RT-qPCR and microRNA target validation was performed in primary endothelial cells. Altogether, we identified significant gene expression differences between AA and white female hypertensives and pinpointed novel mRNA-microRNA pairs differentially-expressed by hypertension and race. These differences may contribute to the known disparities in hypertension and may be potential targets for intervention.	
Regulation of UGT2B Expression and Activity by miR-216b-5p in Liver Cancer Cell Lines	D. F. Dluzen, et al.	2016	27474751	The UDP-glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) 2B enzymes are important in the detoxification of a variety of endogenous and exogenous compounds, including many hormones, drugs, and carcinogens. Identifying novel mechanisms governing their expression is important in understanding patient-specific response to drugs and cancer risk factors. In silico prediction algorithm programs were used to screen for microRNAs (miRNAs) as potential regulators of UGT2B enzymes, with miR-216b-5p identified as a potential candidate. Luciferase data suggested the presence of a functional miR-216b-5p binding motif within the 3' untranslated regions of UGTs 2B7, 2B4, and 2B10. Overexpression of miR-216b-5p mimics significantly repressed UGT2B7 (P < 0.001) and UGT2B10 (P = 0.0018) mRNA levels in HuH-7 cells and UGT2B4 (P < 0.001) and UGT2B10 (P = 0.018) mRNA in Hep3B cells. UGT2B7 protein levels were repressed in both HuH-7 and Hep3B cells in the presence of increasing miR-216b-5p concentrations, corresponding with significant (P < 0.001 and P = 0.011, respectively) decreases in glucuronidation activity against the UGT2B7-specific substrate epirubicin. Inhibition of endogenous miR-216b-5p levels significantly increased UGT2B7 mRNA levels in HuH-7 (P = 0.021) and Hep3B (P = 0.0068) cells, and increased epirubicin glucuronidation by 85% (P = 0.057) and 50% (P = 0.012) for HuH-7 and Hep3B cells, respectively. UGT2B4 activity against codeine and UGT2B10 activity against nicotine were significantly decreased in both HuH-7 and Hep3B cells (P < 0.001 and P = 0.0048, and P = 0.017 and P = 0.043, respectively) after overexpression of miR-216b-5p mimic. This is the first evidence that miRNAs regulate UGT 2B7, 2B4, and 2B10 expression, and that miR-216b-5p regulation of UGT2B proteins may be important in regulating the metabolism of UGT2B substrates.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Base Sequence;Cell Line, Tumor;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Glucuronosyltransferase/ genetics/metabolism;Humans;Liver Neoplasms/ pathology;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Polymorphism, Genetic
Muscle Expression of SOD1(G93A) Modulates microRNA and mRNA Transcription Pattern Associated with the Myelination Process in the Spinal Cord of Transgenic Mice	G. Dobrowolny, et al.	2015	26648847	A crucial system severely affected in several neuromuscular diseases is the loss of effective connection between muscle and nerve, leading to a pathological non-communication between the two tissues. One of the best examples of impaired interplay between muscle and nerve is Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, a neurodegenerative disease characterized by degeneration of motor neurons and muscle atrophy. Increasing evidences suggest that damage to motor neurons is enhanced by alterations in the neighboring non-neuronal cells and indicate that altered skeletal muscle might be the source of signals that impinge motor neuron activity and survival. Here we investigated whether muscle selective expression of SOD1(G93A) mutant gene modulates mRNAs and miRNAs expression at the level of spinal cord of MLC/SOD1(G93A) mice. Using a Taqman array, the Affymetrix Mouse Gene 2.0 ST approach and the MiRwalk 2.0 database, which provides information on miRNA and their predicted target genes, we revealed that muscle specific expression of SOD1(G93A) modulates relevant molecules of the genetic and epigenetic circuitry of myelin homeostasis in spinal cord of transgenic mice. Our study provides insights into the pathophysiological interplay between muscle and nerve and supports the hypothesis that muscle is a source of signals that can either positively or negatively affect the nervous system.	Als;Sod1g93a;miRNA and mRNA signature;muscle-nerve interplay;myelination process
Serum MicroRNA Profiles Serve as Novel Biomarkers for the Diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease	H. Dong, et al.	2015	26078483	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common type of dementia, and promptly diagnosis of AD is crucial for delaying the development of disease and improving patient quality of life. However, AD detection, particularly in the early stages, remains a substantial challenge due to the lack of specific biomarkers. The present study was undertaken to identify and validate the potential of circulating miRNAs as novel biomarkers for AD. Solexa sequencing was employed to screen the expression profile of serum miRNAs in AD and controls. RT-qPCR was used to confirm the altered miRNAs at the individual level. Moreover, candidate miRNAs were examined in the serum samples of patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and vascular dementia (VD). The results showed that four miRNAs (miR-31, miR-93, miR-143, and miR-146a) were markedly decreased in AD patients' serum compared with controls. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis demonstrated that this panel of four miRNAs could be used as potential biomarker for AD. Furthermore, miR-93, and miR-146a were significantly elevated in MCI compared with controls, and the panel of miR-31, miR-93 and miR-146a can be used to discriminate AD from VD. We established a panel of four serum miRNAs as a novel noninvasive biomarker for AD diagnosis.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/blood/ diagnosis/genetics;Biomarkers/ blood;Cognitive Dysfunction/blood/ genetics;Dementia, Vascular/blood/diagnosis/ genetics;Diagnosis, Differential;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/genetics;ROC Curve;Sequence Analysis, RNA/methods
miRNA-181a inhibits the proliferation, migration, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition of lens epithelial cells	N. Dong, et al.	2015	25626972	PURPOSE: MicroRNA-181a (miR-181a) is thought to be involved in posterior capsule opacification (PCO). This study investigated the role of miR-181a in the proliferation, migration, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of lens epithelial cells (LECs). METHODS: The expression of miR-181a was detected in human PCO-attached LECs and LECs obtained from patients with anterior polar cataracts by quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR). The proliferation of SRA01/04 cells transfected with miR-181a mimics was analyzed by MTT assays and bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU)-incorporation assays. The migration of SRA01/04 cells was evaluated by wound-healing assays and Transwell migration. Luciferase reporter assays were used to validate the regulation of a putative target of miR-181a. RESULTS: The expression of miR-181a is decreased in human PCO-attached LECs and LECs obtained from patients with anterior polar cataracts. A significant decrease in proliferation was observed in SRA01/04 cells transfected with miR-181a mimics. The overexpression of miR-181a inhibited the migration ability of LECs. Downregulation of fibronectin, Slug, and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression and upregulation of E-cadherin expression were induced in human PCO-attached LECs transfected with miR-181a mimics and miR-181a-overexpressing LECs obtained from patients with anterior polar cataracts. Furthermore, luciferase assays using a reporter carrying a putative miR-181a target site in the 3' untranslated region of c-Met, Slug, and COX-2 revealed that miR-181a directly targets c-Met, Slug, and COX-2. CONCLUSIONS: These data reveal that miR-181a can inhibit the proliferation, migration, and EMT of LECs and suggest that the restoration of miRNA-181a expression may be a potential novel therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of posterior capsule opacification.	Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Blotting, Western;Capsule Opacification/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Cell Movement;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Epithelial Cells/ metabolism/pathology;Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition/ genetics;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Lens, Crystalline/ metabolism/pathology;Male;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;Middle Aged;RNA/ genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction;epithelial-mesenchymal transition;lens epithelial cells;miR-181a;migration;proliferation
MiRNA-26b inhibits the proliferation, migration, and epithelial-mesenchymal transition of lens epithelial cells	N. Dong, et al.	2014	25063219	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of small endogenous gene regulators that play important roles in various developmental and pathological processes. However, little is known about the precise identity and functions of miR-26b in posterior capsule opacification (PCO). In this study, we report that the expression of miR-26b is decreased in human PCO-attached lens epithelial cells (LECs) and SRA01/04 cells in the presence of TGF-beta2. Overexpression of miR-26b inhibited the proliferation of LECs based on MTT assays and BrdU incorporation assays. In addition, the overexpression of miR-26b inhibited the migration ability of LECs, as shown by wound-healing and transwell migration assays. The overexpression of miR-26b increased the level of the lens epithelial marker E-cadherin and reduced the levels of mesenchymal-related proteins, such as fibronectin, a-SMA, and type I collagen, in SRA01/04 cells in the presence of TGF-beta2. Furthermore, the upregulation of E-cadherin and downregulation of mesenchymal-related proteins were induced in human PCO-attached LECs transfected with miR-26b mimics. We further demonstrated that Smad4 and COX-2 are targets of miR-26b in LECs using luciferase reporter assays. These data reveal that miR-26b can inhibit the proliferation, migration, and EMT of lens epithelial cells, and restoration of miRNA-26b may be a potential, novel therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of posterior capsule opacification.	Cadherins/metabolism;Capsule Opacification/ genetics;Cell Line/drug effects;Cell Movement;Cell Proliferation;Cyclooxygenase 2/genetics/metabolism;Epithelial Cells/drug effects/metabolism/pathology;Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Lens, Crystalline/ cytology/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Posterior Capsule of the Lens/pathology;Smad4 Protein/metabolism;Transforming Growth Factor beta2/pharmacology
HCSGD: An integrated database of human cellular senescence genes	Q. Dong, et al.	2017	28529078	Cellular senescence is an irreversible cell cycle arrest program in response to various exogenous and endogenous stimuli like telomere dysfunction and DNA damage. It has been widely accepted as an anti-tumor program and is also found closely related to embryo development, tissue repair, organismal aging and age-related degenerative diseases. In the past decades, numerous efforts have been made to uncover the gene regulatory mechanisms of cellular senescence. There is a strong demand to integrate these data from various resources into one open platform. To facilitate researchers on cellular senescence, we have developed Human Cellular Senescence Gene Database (HCSGD) by integrating multiple online published data sources into a comprehensive senescence gene annotation platform (http://bioinfo.au.tsinghua.edu.cn/member/xwwang/HCSGD). Potential Human Cellular Senescence Genes (HCSGS) were collected by combining information from published literatures, gene expression profiling data and Protein-Protein Interaction networks. Additionally, genes are annotated with gene ontology annotation and microRNA/drug/compound target information. HCSGD provides a valuable resource to visualize cellular senescence gene networks, browse annotated functional information, and retrieve senescence-associated genes with a user-friendly web interface.	Cellular senescence;Meta-analysis;Text-mining
MicroRNA let-7b induces lens epithelial cell apoptosis by targeting leucine-rich repeat containing G protein-coupled receptor 4 (Lgr4) in age-related cataract	Y. Dong, et al.	2016	27179410	Owing to a rapidly aging population, vision impairment caused by age-related cataract has become very common. Age-related cataract has also become one of the principal causes of blindness, and apoptosis of lens epithelial cells contributes to non-congenital cataract development. Previous studies have reported that microRNA let-7b (let-7b) is upregulated in cataractous lens epithelial cells, and the expression level of let-7b is positively associated with N, C and P cataract scores. However, the role of let-7b in the development of age-related cataract remains unclear. Here, we observed that the expression level of let-7b in the anterior lens capsules of age-related cataract was significantly higher than that in the normal anterior lens capsules. We performed ultraviolet (UV) irradiation to induce lens epithelial cell apoptosis. The results showed that the expression level of let-7b in lens epithelial cells which were treated by UV irradiation was significantly higher than that in the control, and let-7b promoted UV irradiation-induced apoptosis. Furthermore, we showed that leucine-rich repeat containing G protein-coupled receptor 4 (Lgr4) was a direct target of let-7b, and let-7b modulated lens epithelial cell apoptosis by directly targeting Lgr4. These findings will offer new insights into our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of cataract.	Aged;Apoptosis/ physiology/radiation effects;Cataract/ metabolism/physiopathology;Cell Line;Down-Regulation;Epithelial Cells/ metabolism/radiation effects;Female;Humans;Lens, Crystalline/ metabolism/radiation effects;Leucine/ metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/metabolism/ physiology;Middle Aged;Receptors, G-Protein-Coupled/metabolism;Ultraviolet Rays/adverse effects;Up-Regulation;Age-related cataract;Lens epithelial cells;Lgr4;MicroRNA let-7b;Ultraviolet irradiation
Potential role of microRNA-7 in the anti-neuroinflammation effects of nicorandil in astrocytes induced by oxygen-glucose deprivation	Y. F. Dong, et al.	2016	26961366	BACKGROUND: It is generally recognized that the inflammatory reaction in glia is one of the important pathological factors in brain ischemic injury. Our previous study has revealed that opening ATP-sensitive potassium (K-ATP) channels could attenuate glial inflammation induced by ischemic stroke. However, the detailed mechanisms are not well known. METHODS: Primary cultured astrocytes separated from C57BL/6 mice were subjected to oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD); cellular injuries were determined via observing the changes of cellular morphology and cell viability. MicroRNA (miR) and messenger RNA (mRNA) level was validated by real-time PCR. The interaction between microRNA and the target was confirmed via dual luciferase reporter gene assay. Expressions of proteins and inflammatory cytokines were respectively assessed by western blotting and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. RESULTS: OGD resulted in astrocytic damage, which was prevented by K-ATP channel opener nicorandil. Notably, we found that OGD significantly downregulated miR-7 and upregulated Herpud2. Our further study proved that miR-7 targeted Herpud2 3'UTR, which encoded endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress protein-HERP2. Correspondingly, our results showed that OGD increased the levels of ER stress proteins along with significant elevations of pro-inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta). Pretreatment with nicorandil could remarkably upregulate miR-7, depress the ER-related protein expressions including glucose-regulated protein 78 (GRP78), C/EBP-homologous protein (CHOP), and Caspase-12, and thereby attenuate inflammatory responses and astrocytic damages. CONCLUSIONS: These findings demonstrate that opening K-ATP channels protects astrocytes against OGD-mediated neuroinflammation. Potentially, miR-7-targeted ER stress acts as a key molecular brake on neuroinflammation.	Animals;Anti-Inflammatory Agents/ pharmacology;Astrocytes/ drug effects/ultrastructure;Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Transcription Factors/metabolism;Cell Hypoxia/ drug effects;Cell Survival;Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress/drug effects;Glucose/ deficiency;Inflammation/ drug therapy/genetics;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/drug effects/ physiology;Nicorandil/ pharmacology;Potassium Channels/ agonists;Primary Cell Culture;Repressor Proteins/metabolism
Gene network and pathway analysis of mice with conditional ablation of Dicer in post-mitotic neurons	V. Dorval, et al.	2012	22952873	BACKGROUND: The small non-protein-coding microRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as critical regulators of neuronal differentiation, identity and survival. To date, however, little is known about the genes and molecular networks regulated by neuronal miRNAs in vivo, particularly in the adult mammalian brain. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We analyzed whole genome microarrays from mice lacking Dicer, the enzyme responsible for miRNA production, specifically in postnatal forebrain neurons. A total of 755 mRNA transcripts were significantly (P<0.05, FDR<0.25) misregulated in the conditional Dicer knockout mice. Ten genes, including Tnrc6c, Dnmt3a, and Limk1, were validated by real time quantitative RT-PCR. Upregulated transcripts were enriched in nonneuronal genes, which is consistent with previous studies in vitro. Microarray data mining showed that upregulated genes were enriched in biological processes related to gene expression regulation, while downregulated genes were associated with neuronal functions. Molecular pathways associated with neurological disorders, cellular organization and cellular maintenance were altered in the Dicer mutant mice. Numerous miRNA target sites were enriched in the 3'untranslated region (3'UTR) of upregulated genes, the most significant corresponding to the miR-124 seed sequence. Interestingly, our results suggest that, in addition to miR-124, a large fraction of the neuronal miRNome participates, by order of abundance, in coordinated gene expression regulation and neuronal maintenance. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Taken together, these results provide new clues into the role of specific miRNA pathways in the regulation of brain identity and maintenance in adult mice.	Aging/genetics;Animals;Brain/cytology/growth & development/metabolism;Computational Biology;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/ genetics/metabolism;Gene Deletion;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Gene Regulatory Networks/ genetics;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Mitosis/ genetics;Neurons/ cytology/ metabolism;Organ Specificity/genetics;Reproducibility of Results;Ribonuclease III/ genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction/ genetics
Lamin B1 fluctuations have differential effects on cellular proliferation and senescence	O. Dreesen, et al.	2013	23439683	The nuclear lamina consists of A- and B-type lamins. Mutations in LMNA cause many human diseases, including progeria, a premature aging syndrome, whereas LMNB1 duplication causes adult-onset autosomal dominant leukodystrophy (ADLD). LMNB1 is reduced in cells from progeria patients, but the significance of this reduction is unclear. In this paper, we show that LMNB1 protein levels decline in senescent human dermal fibroblasts and keratinocytes, mediated by reduced transcription and inhibition of LMNB1 messenger ribonucleic acid (RNA) translation by miRNA-23a. This reduction is also observed in chronologically aged human skin tissue. To determine whether altered LMNB1 levels cause senescence, we either increased or reduced LMNB1. Both LMNB1 depletion and overexpression inhibited proliferation, but only LMNB1 overexpression induced senescence, which was prevented by telomerase expression or inactivation of p53. This phenotype was exacerbated by a simultaneous reduction of LMNA/C. Our results demonstrate that altering LMNB1 levels inhibits proliferation and are relevant to understanding the molecular pathology of ADLD.	Cell Aging;Cell Differentiation;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;DNA Damage;DNA-Binding Proteins/metabolism;Down-Regulation;Fibroblasts/ metabolism/pathology;Genotype;Humans;Keratinocytes/ metabolism/pathology;Lamin Type A/metabolism;Lamin Type B/genetics/ metabolism;Membrane Proteins/metabolism;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Nuclear Lamina/metabolism;Pelizaeus-Merzbacher Disease/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Phenotype;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Skin Aging;Telomerase/metabolism;Time Factors;Transcription, Genetic;Transfection;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/metabolism;Up-Regulation
MicroRNAs and exercise-induced skeletal muscle adaptations	M. J. Drummond	2010	20952375		Exercise/ physiology;Humans;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Muscle, Skeletal/ physiology;Physical Endurance/physiology
Aging differentially affects human skeletal muscle microRNA expression at rest and after an anabolic stimulus of resistance exercise and essential amino acids	M. J. Drummond, et al.	2008	18827171	Sarcopenia, skeletal muscle loss during aging, is associated with increased falls, fractures, morbidity, and loss of independence. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are novel posttranscriptional regulators. The role of miRNAs in cell size regulation after an anabolic stimulus in human skeletal muscle is unknown. We hypothesized that aging would be associated with a differential expression of skeletal muscle primary miRNA (pri-miRNA) and mature miRNA (miR). To test this hypothesis, we used real-time PCR and immunoblotting before and after an anabolic stimulus (resistance exercise + ingestion of a 20-g leucine-enriched essential amino acid solution) to measure the expression of muscle-specific miRNAs (miR-1, miR-133a, and miR-206), upstream regulators (MyoD and myogenin), and downstream targets [insulin-like growth factor-I, histone deacetylase-4, myocyte enhancing factor-2, and Ras homolog enriched in brain (Rheb)] in skeletal muscle of young and older men. Muscle biopsies were obtained at baseline and 3 and 6 h after exercise. At baseline, we found pri-miRNA-1-1, -1-2, -133a-1, and -133a-2 expression elevated in older compared with young men (P < 0.05). Pri-miRNA-1-2, -133a-1, and -133a-2 were reduced at 6 h after exercise only in the young men compared with baseline, whereas pri-miRNA-206 was elevated at different postexercise time points in older and young men (P < 0.05). Compared with baseline, miR-1 was reduced only in the young men, whereas Rheb protein was increased in both age groups after the anabolic stimulus (P < 0.05). We conclude that skeletal muscle primary and mature miRNA expression in young men is readily altered by an anabolic stimulus of resistance exercise + essential amino acid ingestion. However, aging is associated with higher basal skeletal muscle primary miRNA expression and a dysregulated miRNA response after the anabolic stimulus.	Adult;Aged;Aging/genetics/metabolism/ physiology;Amino Acids, Essential/ pharmacology;Biopsy;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;Humans;Male;Metabolism/drug effects/genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Muscle, Skeletal/drug effects/ metabolism/pathology;Physical Stimulation;Resistance Training;Rest/ physiology
Aging and microRNA expression in human skeletal muscle: a microarray and bioinformatics analysis	M. J. Drummond, et al.	2011	20876843	A common characteristic of aging is loss of skeletal muscle (sarcopenia), which can lead to falls and fractures. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are novel posttranscriptional modulators of gene expression with potential roles as regulators of skeletal muscle mass and function. The purpose of this study was to profile miRNA expression patterns in aging human skeletal muscle with a miRNA array followed by in-depth functional and network analysis. Muscle biopsy samples from 36 men [young: 31 +/- 2 (n = 19); older: 73 +/- 3 (n = 17)] were 1) analyzed for expression of miRNAs with a miRNA array, 2) validated with TaqMan quantitative real-time PCR assays, and 3) identified (and later validated) for potential gene targets with the bioinformatics knowledge base software Ingenuity Pathways Analysis. Eighteen miRNAs were differentially expressed in older humans (P < 0.05 and >500 expression level). Let-7 family members Let-7b and Let-7e were significantly elevated and further validated in older subjects (P < 0.05). Functional and network analysis from Ingenuity determined that gene targets of the Let-7s were associated with molecular networks involved in cell cycle control such as cellular proliferation and differentiation. We confirmed with real-time PCR that mRNA expression of cell cycle regulators CDK6, CDC25A, and CDC34 were downregulated in older compared with young subjects (P < 0.05). In addition, PAX7 mRNA expression was lower in older subjects (P < 0.05). These data suggest that aging is characterized by a higher expression of Let-7 family members that may downregulate genes related to cellular proliferation. We propose that higher Let-7 expression may be an indicator of impaired cell cycle function possibly contributing to reduced muscle cell renewal and regeneration in older human muscle.	Adult;Aged;Aging/genetics/ physiology;Computational Biology/methods;Databases, Genetic;Gene Expression;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Microarray Analysis;Muscle, Skeletal/ metabolism;Sequence Analysis, DNA
The microRNA miR-17-3p inhibits mouse cardiac fibroblast senescence by targeting Par4	W. W. Du, et al.	2015	25472717	The microRNA miR-17-92 cluster plays a fundamental role in heart development. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of a member of this cluster, miR-17, on cardiac senescence. We examined the roles of miR-17 in senescence and demonstrated that miR-17-3p attenuates cardiac aging in the myocardium by targeting Par4 (also known as PAWR). This upregulates the downstream proteins CEBPB, FAK, N-cadherin, vimentin, Oct4 and Sca-1 (also known as stem cell antigen-1), and downregulates E-cadherin. Par4 has been reported as a tumor suppressor gene that induces apoptosis in cancer cells, but not in normal cells. Repression of Par4 by miR-17-3p enhances the transcription of CEBPB and FAK, which promotes mouse cardiac fibroblast (MCF) epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and self-renewal, resulting in cellular senescence and apoptosis resistance. We conclude that Par4 can bind to the CEBPB promoter and inhibit its transcription. Decreased Par4 expression increases the amount of CEBPB, which binds to the FAK promoter and enhances FAK transcription. Par4, CEBPB and FAK form a senescence signaling pathway, playing roles in modulating cell survival, growth, apoptosis, EMT and self-renewal. Through this novel senescence signaling axis, miR-17-3p represses Par4 expression, acting pleiotropically as a negative modulator of cardiac aging and cardiac fibroblast cellular senescence.	Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;CCAAT-Enhancer-Binding Protein-beta/genetics/ metabolism;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Survival/genetics;Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition/genetics;Fibroblasts/metabolism;Focal Adhesion Kinase 1/genetics/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Protein Binding;Signal Transduction;Senescence;miR-17;microRNA
Molecular portrait of cisplatin induced response in human testis cancer cell lines based on gene expression profiles	N. Duale, et al.	2007	17711579	BACKGROUND: Testicular germ cell tumors (TGCTs) respond well to cisplatin-based chemotherapy and show a low incidence of acquired resistance compared to most somatic tumors. The reasons for these specific characteristics are not known in detail but seem to be multifactorial. We have studied gene expression profiles of testicular and colon cancer derived cell lines treated with cisplatin. The main goal of this study was to identify novel gene expression profiles with their functional categories and the biochemical pathways that are associated with TGCT cells' response to cisplatin. RESULTS: Genes that were differentially expressed between the TGCT cell lines vs the (somatic) HCT116 cell line, after cisplatin treatment, were identified using the significance analysis of microarrays (SAM) method. The response of TGCT cells was strikingly different from that of HCT116, and we identified 1794 genes that were differentially expressed. Functional classification of these genes showed that they participate in a variety of different and widely distributed functional categories and biochemical pathways. Database mining showed significant association of genes (n = 41) induced by cisplatin in our study, and genes previously reported to by expressed in differentiated TGCT cells. We identified 37 p53-responsive genes that were altered after cisplatin exposure. We also identified 40 target genes for two microRNAs, hsa-mir-372 and 373 that may interfere with p53 signaling in TGCTs. The tumor suppressor genes NEO1 and LATS2, and the estrogen receptor gene ESR1, all have binding sites for p53 and hsa-mir-372/373. NEO1 and LATS2 were down-regulated in TGCT cells following cisplatin exposure, while ESR1 was up-regulated in TGCT cells. Cisplatin-induced genes associated with terminal growth arrest through senescence were identified, indicating associations which were not previously described for TGCT cells. CONCLUSION: By linking our gene expression data to publicly available databases and literature, we provide a global pattern of cisplatin induced cellular response that is specific for testicular cancer cell lines. We have identified cisplatin-responsive functional classes and pathways, such as the angiogenesis, Wnt, integrin, and cadherin signaling pathways. The identification of differentially expressed genes in this study may contribute to a better understanding of the unusual sensitivity of TGCT to some DNA-damaging agents.	Antineoplastic Agents/ therapeutic use;Cisplatin/ therapeutic use;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Male;Testicular Neoplasms/ drug therapy/ genetics;Tumor Cells, Cultured
The Emerging Role of MitomiRs in the Pathophysiology of Human Disease	F. V. Duarte, et al.	2015	26663182	microRNAs (miRNAs) are small, single-stranded noncoding RNA molecules involved in posttranscriptional control of gene expression of a wide number of genes. miRNAs align and bind especially to 3'UTR sequences of their target genes and initiate either mRNA degradation or translational repression, resulting in reduced protein levels. miRNAs are now recognized as major players in virtually every biological process. In recent years, the discovery of miRNAs has revolutionized the traditional view of gene expression and our understanding of miRNA biogenesis and function has thereby expanded. The discovery of mitochondrial-located miRNAs raises the issue of the molecular mechanism underlying their translocation from the nucleus to the mitochondria. Studies in different species indicate that it may exist a number of import pathways of nucleus-encoded RNAs to mitochondria, being the most of them largely ATP-dependent. Not only pre-miRNAs, but also mature miRNAs, are present in the mitochondria; these findings have also raised the possibility of mitochondrial miRNA synthesis. Some pre-miRNAs sequences seem to be processed in the mitochondria, giving origin to mature miRNAs, which could be immediately active on the mitochondrial transcripts or exported to the cytosol in order to interfere with genomic-derived mRNA. Thus, the mitochondrial-processed miRNAs are likely to contribute to some posttranscriptional regulation of gene expression related to the mitochondrial functions. Coming from their location, the mitochondria, some miRNAs are currently named as mitomiRs; it refers to those miRNAs that can localize in mitochondria, whether transcribed from the nuclear or, potentially, the mitochondrial genome. When their genomics was analyzed, a number of mitomiRs mapped the nuclear genome at loci relevant to mitochondrial functions or diseases. Current computational analyses, using different algorithms, drive scientists to argue that the mitochondrial genome can harbor sequences that could be a target for several mitomiRs. However, perhaps a more challenging topic concerning mitomiRs is whether the mitochondrial DNA can harbor miRNA sequences, indicating an involvement of mitochondria in small RNA-generating pathways. The identification of populations of miRNAs in the mitochondria pushed scientists in the field to question its biological functions. It is established that miRNAs, originated in the nuclear genome, are exported to cytosol where they are processed and exert their function by inhibiting nuclear genome-derived mRNA. Actually it is also known that some miRNAs are imported into mitochondria where they interact with some mitochondrial genome-derived mRNA molecules. More strikingly, it has also come to light that mitochondrial genome (mtDNA) can originate some miRNA molecules that exert their function directly on mitochondrial transcripts. The links between miRNA deregulation and human disease have been reported in almost all medicine fields. Currently, great efforts are being invested in understanding the involvement of miRNA deregulation in disease and unlocking the mechanisms by which they act. This new field of investigation has revealed the tremendous potential of miRNAs as diagnostic or even as valuable therapeutic tools. miRNAs have recently emerged as key regulators of metabolism. Metabolic syndrome is a systemic disorder that includes a spectrum of abnormalities associated with obesity and type II diabetes. Defects in mitochondrial function, namely related to oxidation of fatty acids, have been linked to diet-induced obesity and the development of insulin resistance in adipose tissue and skeletal muscle. Consistently, obese individuals have mitochondria with compromised bioenergetic capacity. Therefore, increasing interest is being given to the role of miRNAs on metabolic regulation, with relevance on mitochondria and the mechanisms purported for miRNA actions, particularly acting in mitochondria or in mitochondria-related pathways. The involvement of miRNAs in mitochondrial metabolism, mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS), electron transport chain (ETC) components, lipid metabolism, and metabolic disorders is becoming more and more comprehended, as well as miRNAs contribution for processes such as mitochondrial dynamics or apoptosis regulation and cancer.	Gene Expression Regulation;Genome, Mitochondrial/genetics;Humans;Metabolic Diseases/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Mitochondria/ genetics/metabolism;Mitochondrial Dynamics/genetics;Models, Genetic;Neoplasms/ genetics;Neurodegenerative Diseases/ genetics;Oxidative Phosphorylation;RNA/genetics/metabolism;Alzheimer's disease;Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS);Cancer;Glycolysis;Huntingtin (HTT);Huntington's disease;Metabolic disorders;Mitochondria;Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA);Mitochondrial dynamics;Mitochondrial transcripts;Mitofusin;Neurodegeneration;Oxphos;Parkinson's disease;microRNA (miRNA);mitomiRs
CircInteractome: A web tool for exploring circular RNAs and their interacting proteins and microRNAs	D. B. Dudekula, et al.	2016	26669964	Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are widely expressed in animal cells, but their biogenesis and functions are poorly understood. CircRNAs have been shown to act as sponges for miRNAs and may also potentially sponge RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) and are thus predicted to function as robust posttranscriptional regulators of gene expression. The joint analysis of large-scale transcriptome data coupled with computational analyses represents a powerful approach to elucidate possible biological roles of ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complexes. Here, we present a new web tool, CircInteractome (circRNA interactome), for mapping RBP- and miRNA-binding sites on human circRNAs. CircInteractome searches public circRNA, miRNA, and RBP databases to provide bioinformatic analyses of binding sites on circRNAs and additionally analyzes miRNA and RBP sites on junction and junction-flanking sequences. CircInteractome also allows the user the ability to (1) identify potential circRNAs which can act as RBP sponges, (2) design junction-spanning primers for specific detection of circRNAs of interest, (3) design siRNAs for circRNA silencing, and (4) identify potential internal ribosomal entry sites (IRES). In sum, the web tool CircInteractome, freely accessible at http://circinteractome.nia.nih.gov, facilitates the analysis of circRNAs and circRNP biology.	Binding Sites;Computational Biology/ methods;Databases, Genetic;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Models, Molecular;RNA/ chemistry/ metabolism;RNA-Binding Proteins/ metabolism;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Web Browser;CLIP-Seq;CircRNA-miRNA;RNA-binding proteins;circRNA IRES;circRNA siRNA;divergent primer design;sponge circRNAs;transcriptome
Gene silencing pathways found in the green alga Volvox carteri reveal insights into evolution and origins of small RNA systems in plants	A. Dueck, et al.	2016	27806710	BACKGROUND: Volvox carteri (V. carteri) is a multicellular green alga used as model system for the evolution of multicellularity. So far, the contribution of small RNA pathways to these phenomena is not understood. Thus, we have sequenced V. carteri Argonaute 3 (VcAGO3)-associated small RNAs from different developmental stages. RESULTS: Using this functional approach, we define the Volvox microRNA (miRNA) repertoire and show that miRNAs are not conserved in the closely related unicellular alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. Furthermore, we find that miRNAs are differentially expressed during different life stages of V. carteri. In addition to miRNAs, transposon-associated small RNAs or phased siRNA loci, which are common in higher land plants, are highly abundant in Volvox as well. Transposons not only give rise to miRNAs and other small RNAs, they are also targets of small RNAs. CONCLUSION: Our analyses reveal a surprisingly complex small RNA network in Volvox as elaborate as in higher land plants. At least the identified VcAGO3-associated miRNAs are not conserved in C. reinhardtii suggesting fast evolution of small RNA systems. Thus, distinct small RNAs may contribute to multicellularity and also division of labor in reproductive and somatic cells.	Argonaute;Evolution;Gene silencing;Small RNAs;Transposons;Volvox carteri;microRNAs
Maternal protein restriction leads to pancreatic failure in offspring: role of misexpressed microRNA-375	O. Dumortier, et al.	2014	24834976	The intrauterine environment of the fetus is a preeminent actor in long-term health. Indeed, mounting evidence shows that maternal malnutrition increases the risk of type 2 diabetes (T2D) in progeny. Although the consequences of a disturbed prenatal environment on the development of the pancreas are known, the underlying mechanisms are poorly defined. In rats, restriction of protein during gestation alters the development of the endocrine pancreas and favors the occurrence of T2D later in life. Here we evaluate the potential role of perturbed microRNA (miRNA) expression in the decreased beta-cell mass and insulin secretion characterizing progeny of pregnant dams fed a low-protein (LP) diet. miRNA profiling shows increased expression of several miRNAs, including miR-375, in the pancreas of fetuses of mothers fed an LP diet. The expression of miR-375 remains augmented in neoformed islets derived from fetuses and in islets from adult (3-month-old) progeny of mothers fed an LP diet. miR-375 regulates the proliferation and insulin secretion of dissociated islet cells, contributing to the reduced beta-cell mass and function of progeny of mothers fed an LP diet. Remarkably, miR-375 normalization in LP-derived islet cells restores beta-cell proliferation and insulin secretion. Our findings suggest the existence of a developmental memory in islets that registers intrauterine protein restriction. Hence, pancreatic failure after in utero malnutrition could result from transgenerational transmission of miRNA misexpression in beta-cells.	Animals;Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Diet, Protein-Restricted;Female;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Pancreas/ metabolism/pathology;Pregnancy;Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Protein Deficiency/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Rats;Rats, Wistar
MicroRNA in aqueous humor from patients with cataract	J. J. Dunmire, et al.	2013	23146683	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNA molecules with regulatory function and marked tissue specificity that can modulate multiple gene targets. They have been detected in body fluids and are associated with various physiologic and pathologic processes. We analyzed aqueous humor (AH) from human subjects undergoing cataract surgery to establish the presence and relative quantities of known miRNAs. AH was collected from patients without known ocular diseases other than cataract and a normal systemic history. Quantitative real-time PCR in an array platform was used to detect known miRNAs present in the AH. Among the 264 miRNAs tested, 110 were present in the AH. The top 5 abundant miRNAs identified were miR-202, miR-193b, miR-135a, miR-365, and miR-376a. The presence of miRNAs in AH suggests that they may have functional roles in regulating target genes in tissues lining the anterior chamber. Further analysis of the AH miRNA population may identify potential gene targets and provide insights regarding their roles in AH regulation, glaucoma and anterior segment disease processes.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aqueous Humor/ chemistry;Case-Control Studies;Cataract/ genetics/therapy;Cataract Extraction;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;Humans;MicroRNAs/ analysis;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction
Vascular mineralocorticoid receptor regulates microRNA-155 to promote vasoconstriction and rising blood pressure with aging	J. J. DuPont, et al.	2016	27683672	Hypertension is nearly universal yet poorly controlled in the elderly despite proven benefits of intensive treatment. Mice lacking mineralocorticoid receptors in smooth muscle cells (SMC-MR-KO) are protected from rising blood pressure (BP) with aging, despite normal renal function. Vasoconstriction is attenuated in aged SMC-MR-KO mice, thus they were used to explore vascular mechanisms that may contribute to hypertension with aging. MicroRNA (miR) profiling identified miR-155 as the most down-regulated miR with vascular aging in MR-intact but not SMC-MR-KO mice. The aging-associated decrease in miR-155 in mesenteric resistance vessels was associated with increased mRNA abundance of MR and of predicted miR-155 targets Cav1.2 (L-type calcium channel (LTCC) subunit) and angiotensin type-1 receptor (AgtR1). SMC-MR-KO mice lacked these aging-associated vascular gene expression changes. In HEK293 cells, MR repressed miR-155 promoter activity. In cultured SMCs, miR-155 decreased Cav1.2 and AgtR1 mRNA. Compared to MR-intact littermates, aged SMC-MR-KO mice had decreased systolic BP, myogenic tone, SMC LTCC current, mesenteric vessel calcium influx, LTCC-induced vasoconstriction and angiotensin II-induced vasoconstriction and oxidative stress. Restoration of miR-155 specifically in SMCs of aged MR-intact mice decreased Cav1.2 and AgtR1 mRNA and attenuated LTCC-mediated and angiotensin II-induced vasoconstriction and oxidative stress. Finally, in a trial of MR blockade in elderly humans, changes in serum miR-155 predicted the BP treatment response. Thus, SMC-MR regulation of miR-155, Cav1.2 and AgtR1 impacts vasoconstriction with aging. This novel mechanism identifies potential new treatment strategies and biomarkers to improve and individualize antihypertensive therapy in the elderly.	
A schematic workflow for collecting information about the interaction between copy number variants and microRNAs using existing resources	H. Dweep, et al.	2014	25055921	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) and copy number variations (CNVs) are two extensively studied genomic components in the field of modern biology-as they have been found to be associated with many disorders such as cancer, Alzheimer, pancreatitis, HIV susceptibility, beta-thalassemia, and glomerulonephritis. Several studies suggested that an alteration in CNV-miRNA interaction could result in some human diseases such as cancer. Therefore, the possible miRNA-binding site information within the CNV genes opens new avenues in understanding such disorders. In this chapter, we present a schematic approach for collecting the information on CNV-miRNA interactions using miRWalk and TargetScan databases.	Animals;Computational Biology/ methods;DNA Copy Number Variations/ genetics;Databases, Genetic;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Workflow
Age-dependent microRNA control of synaptic plasticity in 22q11 deletion syndrome and schizophrenia	L. R. Earls, et al.	2012	23055483	The 22q11 deletion syndrome (22q11DS) is characterized by multiple physical and psychiatric abnormalities and is caused by the hemizygous deletion of a 1.5-3 Mb region of chromosome 22. It constitutes one of the strongest known genetic risks for schizophrenia; schizophrenia arises in as many as 30% of patients with 22q11DS during adolescence or early adulthood. A mouse model of 22q11DS displays an age-dependent increase in hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP), a form of synaptic plasticity underlying learning and memory. The sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum Ca(2+) ATPase (SERCA2), which is responsible for loading Ca(2+) into the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), is elevated in this mouse model. The resulting increase in ER Ca(2+) load leads to enhanced neurotransmitter release and increased LTP. However, the mechanism by which the 22q11 microdeletion leads to SERCA2 overexpression and LTP increase has not been determined. Screening of multiple mutant mouse lines revealed that haploinsufficiency of Dgcr8, a microRNA (miRNA) biogenesis gene in the 22q11DS disease-critical region, causes age-dependent, synaptic SERCA2 overexpression and increased LTP. We found that miR-25 and miR-185, regulators of SERCA2, are depleted in mouse models of 22q11DS. Restoration of these miRNAs to presynaptic neurons rescues LTP in Dgcr8(+/-) mice. Finally, we show that SERCA2 is elevated in the brains of patients with schizophrenia, providing a link between mouse model findings and the human disease. We conclude that miRNA-dependent SERCA2 dysregulation is a pathogenic event in 22q11DS and schizophrenia.	22q11 Deletion Syndrome/enzymology/ genetics;Aging/genetics/ metabolism;Animals;Female;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Neuronal Plasticity/ genetics;Organ Culture Techniques;Sarcoplasmic Reticulum Calcium-Transporting ATPases/biosynthesis/ genetics;Schizophrenia/enzymology/ genetics;Synapses/enzymology/ genetics
Alteration of microRNA expression in the process of mouse brain growth	A. Eda, et al.	2011	21718763	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a functional small non-coding RNA and play essential roles in gene regulation in development, differentiation and proliferation. In this study, we investigated expression profiles of miRNAs in the process of normal mouse brain growth from embryonic day 16.5 to ~19 months old by means of DNA microarray and reverse-transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction, and we examined whether there was any association between the expression of miRNAs and brain growth. The results indicated that a major change in the expression of miRNAs occurred in the brain within the first week to the fourth week postnatally. The data also exhibited the miRNAs that gradually increased and decreased in their levels, over the course of brain growth. Therefore, the current study suggests that miRNAs are capable of becoming a useful biological marker for study of brain growth, and leads to the possibility that gene silencing involving miRNAs may participate in the process of brain growth and perhaps brain aging.	Animals;Brain/ embryology/ growth & development;Gene Expression Profiling;Glucuronidase/deficiency;Mice/embryology/ genetics/growth & development;Mice, Inbred ICR;MicroRNAs/ metabolism
Cell Competition Drives the Formation of Metastatic Tumors in a Drosophila Model of Epithelial Tumor Formation	T. Eichenlaub, et al.	2016	26853367	Cell competition is a homeostatic process in which proliferating cells compete for survival. Elimination of otherwise normal healthy cells through competition is important during development and has recently been shown to contribute to maintaining tissue health during organismal aging. The mechanisms that allow for ongoing cell competition during adult life could, in principle, contribute to tumorigenesis. However, direct evidence supporting this hypothesis has been lacking. Here, we provide evidence that cell competition drives tumor formation in a Drosophila model of epithelial cancer. Cells expressing EGFR together with the conserved microRNA miR-8 acquire the properties of supercompetitors. Neoplastic transformation and metastasis depend on the ability of these cells to induce apoptosis and engulf nearby cells. miR-8 expression causes genome instability by downregulating expression of the Septin family protein Peanut. Cytokinesis failure due to downregulation of Peanut is required for tumorigenesis. This study provides evidence that the cellular mechanisms that drive cell competition during normal tissue growth can be co-opted to drive tumor formation and metastasis. Analogous mechanisms for cytokinesis failure may lead to polyploid intermediates in tumorigenesis in mammalian cancer models.	Animals;Carcinogenesis;Cell Proliferation;Cell Transformation, Neoplastic;Disease Models, Animal;Drosophila Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Drosophila melanogaster/ growth & development;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Neoplasms, Glandular and Epithelial/ etiology/physiopathology;Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor/genetics/metabolism;Receptors, Invertebrate Peptide/genetics/metabolism
Consequences of lead exposure, and it's emerging role as an epigenetic modifier in the aging brain	A. Eid and N. Zawia	2016	27066759	Lead exposure has primarily been a concern during development in young children and little attention has been paid to exposure outcomes as these children age, or even to exposures in adulthood. Childhood exposures have long term consequences, and adults who have been exposed to lead as children show a host of cognitive deficits. Lead has also been shown to induce latent changes in the aging brain, and has been implicated in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, particularly Alzheimer's Disease, and Parkinson's. Recent research has shown that lead has the ability to alter DNA methylation, histone modifications, and miRNA expression in experimental models, and in humans. These findings implicate epigenetics in lead induced toxicity, and long term changes in individuals. Epigenetic modification could potentially provide us a mechanism by which the environment, and toxic exposures contribute to the increased susceptibility of adult neurodegenerative disease.	Aging;DNA methylation;Epigenetics;Histones;Lead;Neurodegeneration;miRNA
Genome-wide miRNA signatures of human longevity	A. ElSharawy, et al.	2012	22533606	Little is known about the functions of miRNAs in human longevity. Here, we present the first genome-wide miRNA study in long-lived individuals (LLI) who are considered a model for healthy aging. Using a microarray with 863 miRNAs, we compared the expression profiles obtained from blood samples of 15 centenarians and nonagenarians (mean age 96.4 years) with those of 55 younger individuals (mean age 45.9 years). Eighty miRNAs showed aging-associated expression changes, with 16 miRNAs being up-regulated and 64 down-regulated in the LLI relative to the younger probands. Seven of the eight selected aging-related biomarkers were technically validated using quantitative RT-PCR, confirming the microarray data. Three of the eight miRNAs were further investigated in independent samples of 15 LLI and 17 younger participants (mean age 101.5 and 36.9 years, respectively). Our screening confirmed previously published miRNAs of human aging, thus reflecting the utility of the applied approach. The hierarchical clustering analysis of the miRNA microarray expression data revealed a distinct separation between the LLI and the younger controls (P-value < 10(-5) ). The down-regulated miRNAs appeared as a cluster and were more often reported in the context of diseases than the up-regulated miRNAs. Moreover, many of the differentially regulated miRNAs are known to exhibit contrasting expression patterns in major age-related diseases. Further in silico analyses showed enrichment of potential targets of the down-regulated miRNAs in p53 and other cancer pathways. Altogether, synchronized miRNA-p53 activities could be involved in the prevention of tumorigenesis and the maintenance of genomic integrity during aging.	Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/blood/genetics;Disease/genetics;Down-Regulation;Female;Genetic Markers;Humans;Longevity/ genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/ genetics;Middle Aged;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Reproducibility of Results;Risk Factors;Up-Regulation
miRNAGE-34 induces cardiac damAGE	C. Emanueli and T. Thum	2013	23609795	Small non-coding microRNAs (miRNAs, miRs) regulate gene expression in virtually all cells, and they have been implicated in cardiovascular disease and aging. In a paper recently published in Nature, miR-34a was identified as an aging-associated apoptotic and overall damaging factor for the heart.	Aging/ physiology;Animals;Gene Expression Regulation;Heart/ physiology;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Myocardium/ metabolism
Suppression of miR-184 in malignant gliomas upregulates SND1 and promotes tumor aggressiveness	L. Emdad, et al.	2015	25216670	BACKGROUND: Malignant glioma is an aggressive cancer requiring new therapeutic targets. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate gene expression post transcriptionally and are implicated in cancer development and progression. Deregulated expressions of several miRNAs, specifically hsa-miR-184, correlate with glioma development. METHODS: Bioinformatic approaches were used to identify potential miR-184-regulated target genes involved in malignant glioma progression. This strategy identified a multifunctional nuclease, SND1, known to be overexpressed in multiple cancers, including breast, colon, and hepatocellular carcinoma, as a putative direct miR-184 target gene. SND1 levels were evaluated in patient tumor samples and human-derived cell lines. We analyzed invasion and signaling in vitro through SND1 gain-of-function and loss-of-function. An orthotopic xenograft model with primary glioma cells demonstrated a role of miR-184/SND1 in glioma pathogenesis in vivo. RESULTS: SND1 is highly expressed in human glioma tissue and inversely correlated with miR-184 expression. Transfection of glioma cells with a miR-184 mimic inhibited invasion, suppressed colony formation, and reduced anchorage-independent growth in soft agar. Similar phenotypes were evident when SND1 was knocked down with siRNA. Additionally, knockdown (KD) of SND1 induced senescence and improved the chemoresistant properties of malignant glioma cells. In an orthotopic xenograft model, KD of SND1 or transfection with a miR-184 mimic induced a less invasive tumor phenotype and significantly improved survival of tumor bearing mice. CONCLUSIONS: Our study is the first to show a novel regulatory role of SND1, a direct target of miR-184, in glioma progression, suggesting that the miR-184/SND1 axis may be a useful diagnostic and therapeutic tool for malignant glioma.	Animals;Brain Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism/mortality;Cell Line, Tumor;Disease Progression;Gene Expression Regulation;Glioma/ genetics/metabolism/mortality;Humans;Kaplan-Meier Estimate;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Neoplasm Invasiveness;Nuclear Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Up-Regulation;Snd1;intracranial injection;invasion;malignant glioma;miR-184
Dysregulated miRNA biogenesis downstream of cellular stress and ALS-causing mutations: a new mechanism for ALS	A. Emde, et al.	2015	26330466	Interest in RNA dysfunction in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) recently aroused upon discovering causative mutations in RNA-binding protein genes. Here, we show that extensive down-regulation of miRNA levels is a common molecular denominator for multiple forms of human ALS. We further demonstrate that pathogenic ALS-causing mutations are sufficient to inhibit miRNA biogenesis at the Dicing step. Abnormalities of the stress response are involved in the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration, including ALS. Accordingly, we describe a novel mechanism for modulating microRNA biogenesis under stress, involving stress granule formation and re-organization of DICER and AGO2 protein interactions with their partners. In line with this observation, enhancing DICER activity by a small molecule, enoxacin, is beneficial for neuromuscular function in two independent ALS mouse models. Characterizing miRNA biogenesis downstream of the stress response ties seemingly disparate pathways in neurodegeneration and further suggests that DICER and miRNAs affect neuronal integrity and are possible therapeutic targets.	Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/drug therapy/ genetics/pathology;Animals;Base Sequence;Cytoplasmic Granules/metabolism;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/metabolism;Down-Regulation;Drug Evaluation, Preclinical;Enoxacin/pharmacology;Female;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Male;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Motor Neurons/metabolism;RNA Interference;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional;Ribonuclease III/metabolism;Stress, Physiological;Superoxide Dismutase/genetics;Superoxide Dismutase-1;Als;Dicer;microRNA;neurodegeneration;stress
Label-free voltammetric detection of MicroRNAs at multi-channel screen printed array of electrodes comparison to graphite sensors	A. Erdem and G. Congur	2014	24274264	The multi-channel screen-printed array of electrodes (MUX-SPE16) was used in our study for the first time for electrochemical monitoring of nucleic acid hybridization related to different miRNA sequences (miRNA-16, miRNA-15a and miRNA-660, i.e, the biomarkers for Alzheimer disease). The MUX-SPE16 was also used for the first time herein for the label-free electrochemical detection of nucleic acid hybridization combined magnetic beads (MB) assay in comparison to the disposable pencil graphite electrode (PGE). Under the principle of the magnetic beads assay, the biotinylated inosine substituted DNA probe was firstly immobilized onto streptavidin coated MB, and then, the hybridization process between probe and its complementary miRNA sequence was performed at MB surface. The voltammetric transduction was performed using differential pulse voltammetry (DPV) technique in combination with the single-use graphite sensor technologies; PGE and MUX-SPE16 for miRNA detection by measuring the guanine oxidation signal without using any external indicator. The features of single-use sensor technologies, PGE and MUX-SPE16, were discussed concerning to their reproducibility, detection limit, and selectivity compared to the results in the earlier studies presenting the electrochemical miRNA detection related to different miRNA sequences.	Biosensing Techniques/ methods;DNA Probes;Dielectric Spectroscopy;Electrochemical Techniques;Electrodes;Graphite/ chemistry;HeLa Cells;Humans;Luminescent Measurements;Magnetics;MicroRNAs/ analysis;Molecular Structure;Nanotechnology;Nucleic Acid Hybridization;Electrochemical sensors;Magnetic beads;Multi-channel screen-printed array of electrodes;miRNA
Diagnostic microRNAs in myelodysplastic syndrome	B. Erdogan, et al.	2011	21703983	OBJECTIVE: The myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are aging-associated disorders characterized by ineffective maturation of hematopoietic elements, which are often diagnostically challenging. This study identifies microRNAs (miRNA) and miRNA targets that might represent diagnostic markers for MDS. MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study utilized a total of 42 MDS samples and 45 controls. A discovery set of 20 frozen bone marrow mononuclear cell samples (10 MDS, 10 controls) was profiled on a custom Agilent miRNA microarray. Classifier miRNAs were validated in a separate set of 49 paraffin-embedded particle preparations by real-time polymerase chain reaction (24 MDS, 25 controls). Target prediction analysis was compared to a de novo transcriptional profile of MDS derived from the Microarray Innovations in Leukemia study. c-Myb and Sufu were further investigated by immunohistochemical stains on a set of 26 paraffin-embedded samples. RESULTS: We identified 13 miRNAs of interest from the discovery set, 8 of which proved statistically significant on real-time polymerase chain reaction verification. These eight miRNAs were then examined in an independent real-time polymerase chain reaction validation set. Notably, hsa-miR-378, hsa-miR-632, and hsa-miR-636 demonstrated particularly high discrimination between MDS and normal controls. Target prediction identified potential targets of miRNA regulation that correspond to many of the genes that characterize MDS. Immunohistochemical staining performed on a third validation set confirmed that c-Myb and Sufu are differentially expressed in MDS. CONCLUSIONS: Our data utilize both discovery and validation sets and two complementary platforms to identify miRNAs associated with MDS. We have analyzed predicted targets and identified c-Myb and Sufu as potential diagnostic markers of MDS.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Female;Humans;Immunohistochemistry;Male;MicroRNAs;Middle Aged;Myelodysplastic Syndromes/ diagnosis/genetics;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Paraffin Embedding;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction
In Search of 'Omics'-Based Biomarkers to Predict Risk of Frailty and Its Consequences in Older Individuals: The FRAILOMIC Initiative	J. D. Erusalimsky, et al.	2016	26227153	An increase in the number of older people experiencing disability and dependence is a critical aspect of the demographic change that will emerge within Europe due to the rise in life expectancy. In this scenario, prevention of these conditions is crucial for the well-being of older citizens and for the sustainability of our healthcare systems. Thus, the diagnosis and management of conditions like frailty, which identifies the people at the highest risk for developing those adverse outcomes, is of critical relevance. Currently, assessment of frailty relies primarily on measuring functional parameters, which have limited clinical utility. In this viewpoint article, we describe the FRAILOMIC Initiative, an international, large-scale, multi-endpoint, community- and clinic-based research study funded by the European Commission. The aim of the study is to develop validated measures, comprising both classic and 'omics-based' laboratory biomarkers, which can predict the risk of frailty, improve the accuracy of its diagnosis in clinical practice and provide a prognostic forecast on the evolution from frailty to disability. The initiative includes eight established cohorts of older adults, encompassing >75,000 subjects, most of whom ( approximately 70%) are aged >65 years. Data on function, nutritional status and exercise habits have been collected, and cardiovascular health has been evaluated at baseline. Subjects will be stratified as 'non-frail' or 'frail' using Fried's definition, all adverse outcomes of interest will be recorded and differentially expressed biomarkers associated with the risk of frailty will be identified. Genomic, proteomic and transcriptomic investigations will be carried out using array-based systems. As circulating microRNAs in plasma have been identified in the context of senescence, ageing and age-associated diseases, a miRNome-wide analysis will also be undertaken to identify a miRNA-based signature of frailty. Blood concentrations of secreted proteins known to be upregulated significantly in senescent endothelial cells and other hypothesis-driven biomarkers will be measured using ELISAs. The FRAILOMIC Initiative aims to issue a series of interim scientific reports as key results emerge. Ultimately, it is hoped that this study will contribute to the development of new clinical tools, which may help individuals to enjoy an old age that is healthier and free from disability.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ metabolism;Biomarkers/metabolism;Europe;Frail Elderly;Gene Expression Profiling;Genomics;Humans;Prognosis;Proteomics;Risk Assessment
HMGA1 pseudogenes as candidate proto-oncogenic competitive endogenous RNAs	F. Esposito, et al.	2014	25268743	The High Mobility Group A (HMGA) are nuclear proteins that participate in the organization of nucleoprotein complexes involved in chromatin structure, replication and gene transcription. HMGA overexpression is a feature of human cancer and plays a causal role in cell transformation. Since non-coding RNAs and pseudogenes are now recognized to be important in physiology and disease, we investigated HMGA1 pseudogenes in cancer settings using bioinformatics analysis. Here we report the identification and characterization of two HMGA1 non-coding pseudogenes, HMGA1P6 and HMGA1P7. We show that their overexpression increases the levels of HMGA1 and other cancer-related proteins by inhibiting the suppression of their synthesis mediated by microRNAs. Consistently, embryonic fibroblasts from HMGA1P7-overexpressing transgenic mice displayed a higher growth rate and reduced susceptibility to senescence. Moreover, HMGA1P6 and HMGA1P7 were overexpressed in human anaplastic thyroid carcinomas, which are highly aggressive, but not in differentiated papillary carcinomas, which are less aggressive. Lastly, the expression of the HMGA1 pseudogenes was significantly correlated with HMGA1 protein levels thereby implicating HMGA1P overexpression in cancer progression. In conclusion, HMGA1P6 and HMGA1P7 are potential proto-oncogenic competitive endogenous RNAs.	Animals;Apoptosis;Cell Aging;Cell Proliferation;Computational Biology;Female;Fibroblasts/metabolism/pathology;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;HEK293 Cells;HMGA Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Humans;MCF-7 Cells;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Ovarian Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Pseudogenes/ genetics;RNA Interference;Thyroid Carcinoma, Anaplastic/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Thyroid Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Time Factors;Transfection
Drosophila miR-277 controls branched-chain amino acid catabolism and affects lifespan	S. M. Esslinger, et al.	2013	23669073	Development, growth and adult survival are coordinated with available metabolic resources, ascertaining that the organism responds appropriately to environmental conditions. MicroRNAs are short (21-23 nt) regulatory RNAs that confer specificity on the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC) to inhibit a given set of mRNA targets. We profiled changes in miRNA expression during adult life in Drosophila melanogaster and determined that miR-277 is downregulated during adult life. Molecular analysis revealed that this miRNA controls branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) catabolism and as a result it can modulate the activity of the TOR kinase, a central growth regulator, in cultured cells. Metabolite analysis in cultured cells as well as flies suggests that the mechanistic basis may be an accumulation of branched-chain alpha-keto-acids (BCKA), rather than BCAAs, thus avoiding potentially detrimental consequences of increased branched chain amino acid levels on e.g., translational fidelity. Constitutive miR-277 expression shortens lifespan and is synthetically lethal with reduced insulin signaling, indicating that metabolic control underlies this phenotype. Transgenic inhibition with a miRNA sponge construct also shortens lifespan, in particular on protein-rich food. Thus, optimal metabolic adaptation appears to require tuning of cellular BCAA catabolism by miR-277.	Aging;Amino Acids, Branched-Chain/ metabolism;Animals;Animals, Genetically Modified;Cells, Cultured;Drosophila melanogaster/genetics/ metabolism/physiology;Gene Expression Regulation;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Insulin/metabolism;Longevity;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Sequence Analysis, RNA;TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases/ metabolism;ageing;diabetes;maple syrup urine disease (MSUD);metabolic syndrome;miRNA;miRNA target validation
A genome-wide survey of sexually dimorphic expression of Drosophila miRNAs identifies the steroid hormone-induced miRNA let-7 as a regulator of sexual identity	D. Fagegaltier, et al.	2014	25081570	MiRNAs bear an increasing number of functions throughout development and in the aging adult. Here we address their role in establishing sexually dimorphic traits and sexual identity in male and female Drosophila. Our survey of miRNA populations in each sex identifies sets of miRNAs differentially expressed in male and female tissues across various stages of development. The pervasive sex-biased expression of miRNAs generally increases with the complexity and sexual dimorphism of tissues, gonads revealing the most striking biases. We find that the male-specific regulation of the X chromosome is relevant to miRNA expression on two levels. First, in the male gonad, testis-biased miRNAs tend to reside on the X chromosome. Second, in the soma, X-linked miRNAs do not systematically rely on dosage compensation. We set out to address the importance of a sex-biased expression of miRNAs in establishing sexually dimorphic traits. Our study of the conserved let-7-C miRNA cluster controlled by the sex-biased hormone ecdysone places let-7 as a primary modulator of the sex-determination hierarchy. Flies with modified let-7 levels present doublesex-related phenotypes and express sex-determination genes normally restricted to the opposite sex. In testes and ovaries, alterations of the ecdysone-induced let-7 result in aberrant gonadal somatic cell behavior and non-cell-autonomous defects in early germline differentiation. Gonadal defects as well as aberrant expression of sex-determination genes persist in aging adults under hormonal control. Together, our findings place ecdysone and let-7 as modulators of a somatic systemic signal that helps establish and sustain sexual identity in males and females and differentiation in gonads. This work establishes the foundation for a role of miRNAs in sexual dimorphism and demonstrates that similar to vertebrate hormonal control of cellular sexual identity exists in Drosophila.	Animals;Cell Line;Drosophila melanogaster/ genetics/metabolism;Ecdysteroids/ physiology;Female;Genome, Insect;Lymphoid Tissue/cytology;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Organ Specificity;Ovary/metabolism;RNA Interference;Sex Characteristics;Sex Determination Processes;Testis/metabolism;Transcriptional Activation;Transcriptome;Drosophila;development;ecdysteroid;genetics of sex;gonad;miRNA;sex determination
Evidence for natural antisense transcript-mediated inhibition of microRNA function	M. A. Faghihi, et al.	2010	20507594	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have the potential to regulate diverse sets of mRNA targets. In addition, mammalian genomes contain numerous natural antisense transcripts, most of which appear to be non-protein-coding RNAs (ncRNAs). We have recently identified and characterized a highly conserved non-coding antisense transcript for beta-secretase-1 (BACE1), a critical enzyme in Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology. The BACE1-antisense transcript is markedly up-regulated in brain samples from Alzheimer's disease patients and promotes the stability of the (sense) BACE1 transcript. RESULTS: We report here that BACE1-antisense prevents miRNA-induced repression of BACE1 mRNA by masking the binding site for miR-485-5p. Indeed, miR-485-5p and BACE1-antisense compete for binding within the same region in the open reading frame of the BACE1 mRNA. We observed opposing effects of BACE1-antisense and miR-485-5p on BACE1 protein in vitro and showed that Locked Nucleic Acid-antimiR mediated knockdown of miR-485-5p as well as BACE1-antisense over-expression can prevent the miRNA-induced BACE1 suppression. We found that the expression of BACE1-antisense as well as miR-485-5p are dysregulated in RNA samples from Alzheimer's disease subjects compared to control individuals. CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrate an interface between two distinct groups of regulatory RNAs in the computation of BACE1 gene expression. Moreover, bioinformatics analyses revealed a theoretical basis for many other potential interactions between natural antisense transcripts and miRNAs at the binding sites of the latter.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/enzymology/genetics;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/genetics/metabolism;Animals;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/genetics/metabolism;Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Binding, Competitive/drug effects;Brain/drug effects/enzymology/pathology;Cell Line;High-Throughput Screening Assays;Humans;Luciferases/metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Oligonucleotides/pharmacology;Open Reading Frames/genetics;RNA, Antisense/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;RNA, Untranslated/genetics/metabolism;Reproducibility of Results;Sequence Analysis, DNA
Dipeptidyl Vinyl Sulfone as a Novel Chemical Tool to Inhibit HMGB1/NLRP3-Inflammasome and Inflamma-miRs in Abeta-Mediated Microglial Inflammation	A. S. Falcao, et al.	2017	27797173	Rapid microglial activation and associated inflammatory pathways contribute to immune-defense and tissue repair in the central nervous system (CNS). However, persistent activation of these cells will ultimately result in vast production of pro-inflammatory mediators and other neurotoxic factors, which may induce neuronal damage and contribute to chronic neurodegenerative diseases, as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, small molecules with immunomodulatory effects on microglia may be considered as potential tools to counteract their proinflammatory phenotype and neuroimmune dysregulation in such disorders. Indeed, reducing amyloid-beta (Abeta)-induced microglia activation is believed to be effective in treating AD. In this study, we investigated whether dipeptidyl vinyl sulfone (VS) was able to attenuate Abeta-mediated inflammatory response using a mouse microglial (N9) cell line and a solution containing a mixture of Abeta aggregates. We show that low levels of VS are able to prevent cell death while reducing microglia phagocytosis upon Abeta treatment. VS also suppressed Abeta-induced expression of inflammatory mediators in microglia, such as matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and MMP-9, as well as high-mobility group box protein-1 (HMGB1), nod-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3)-inflammasome, and interleukin (IL)-1beta. Interestingly, increased expression of the two critical inflammation-related microRNAs (miR)-155 and miR-146a in microglia upon Abeta treatment was also prevented by VS coincubation. Taken together, VS emerges as a potential new therapeutic strategy worthy of further investigation in improved cellular and animal models of AD.	Hmgb1;Microglia;amyloid-beta peptide;inflammasome;microRNAs;vinyl sulfones
Role of miR-211 in Neuronal Differentiation and Viability: Implications to Pathogenesis of Alzheimer's Disease	C. Fan, et al.	2016	27458373	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related irreversible neurodegenerative disorder characterized by extracellular beta Amyloid(Abeta) deposition, intracellular neurofibrillary tangles and neuronal loss. The dysfunction of neurogenesis and increased degeneration of neurons contribute to the pathogenesis of AD. We now report that miR-211-5p, a small non-coding RNA, can impair neurite differentiation by directly targeting NUAK1, decrease neuronal viability and accelerate the progression of Abeta-induced pathologies. In this study, we observed that during embryonic development, the expression levels of miR-211-5p were down-regulated in the normal cerebral cortexes of mice. However, in APPswe/PS1DeltaE9 double transgenic adult mice, it was up-regulated from 9 months of age compared to that of the age-matched wild type mice. Studies in primary cortical neuron cultures demonstrated that miR-211-5p can inhibit neurite growth and branching via NUAK1 repression and decrease mature neuron viability. The impairments were more obvious under the action of Abeta. Our data showed that miR-211-5p could inhibit cortical neuron differentiation and survival, which may contribute to the synaptic failure, neuronal loss and cognitive dysfunction in AD.	Alzheimer's disease (AD);Nuak1;amyloid beta (Abeta);microRNA-211-5p;neurite branching;neuronal viability
Histone lysine methyltransferase, suppressor of variegation 3-9 homolog 1, promotes hepatocellular carcinoma progression and is negatively regulated by microRNA-125b	D. N. Fan, et al.	2013	22991213	UNLABELLED: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a major liver malignancy. We previously demonstrated that deregulation of epigenetic regulators is a common event in human HCC. Suppressor of variegation 3-9 homolog 1 (SUV39H1), the prototype of histone methyltransferase, is the major enzyme responsible for histone H3 lysine 9 trimethylation, which, essentially, is involved in heterochromatin formation, chromosome segregation, and mitotic progression. However, the implication of SUV39H1 in hepatocarcinogenesis remains elusive. In this study, we found that SUV39H1 was frequently up-regulated in human HCCs and was significantly associated with increased Ki67 expression (P < 0.001) and the presence of venous invasion (P = 0.017). To investigate the role of SUV39H1 in HCC development, both gain- and loss-of-function models were established. SUV39H1 overexpression remarkably enhanced HCC cell clonogenicity, whereas knockdown of SUV39H1 substantially suppressed HCC cell proliferation and induced cell senescence. In addition, ectopic expression of SUV39H1 increased the migratory ability of HCC cells, whereas a reduced migration rate was observed in SUV39H1 knockdown cells. The significance of SUV39H1 in HCC was further demonstrated in a nude mice model; SUV39H1 knockdown drastically inhibited in vivo tumorigenicity and abolished pulmonary metastasis of HCC cells. We also identified microRNA-125b (miR-125b) as a post-transcriptional regulator of SUV39H1. Ectopic expression of miR-125b inhibited SUV39H1 3'-untranslated-region-coupled luciferase activity and suppressed endogenous SUV39H1 expression at both messenger RNA and protein levels. We have previously reported frequent down-regulation of miR-125b in HCC. Interestingly, miR-125b level was found to be inversely correlated with SUV39H1 expression (P = 0.001) in clinical specimens. Our observations suggested that miR-125b down-regulation may account for the aberrant SUV39H1 level in HCC. CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrated that SUV39H1 up-regulation contributed to HCC development and metastasis. The tumor-suppressive miR-125b served as a negative regulator of SUV39H1.	Animals;Carcinoma, Hepatocellular/genetics;Cell Movement/genetics;Cell Proliferation;Disease Progression;Histone-Lysine N-Methyltransferase;Humans;Liver Neoplasms/genetics;Methyltransferases/ physiology;Mice;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Repressor Proteins/ physiology;Up-Regulation
Endothelial progenitor cells and a stromal cell-derived factor-1alpha analogue synergistically improve survival in sepsis	H. Fan, et al.	2014	24707934	RATIONALE: Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) have been associated with human sepsis but their role is incompletely understood. Stromal cell-derived factor (SDF)-1alpha facilitates EPC recruitment and is elevated in murine sepsis models. Previous studies have demonstrated that the SDF-1alpha analog CTCE-0214 (CTCE) is beneficial in polymicrobial sepsis induced by cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) in mice. OBJECTIVES: We hypothesized that exogenously administered EPCs are also beneficial in CLP sepsis and that CTCE provides synergistic benefit. METHODS: Mice were subjected to CLP and administered EPCs at varying doses, CTCE, or a combination of the two. Mouse survival, plasma miRNA expression, IL-10 production, and lung vascular leakage were determined. The in vitro effect of CTCE on miRNA expression and EPC function were determined. MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Survival was improved with EPC therapy at a threshold of 10(6) cells. In coculture studies, EPCs augmented LPS-induced macrophage IL-10 production. In vivo EPC administration in sepsis increased plasma IL-10, suppressed lung vascular leakage, attenuated liver and kidney injury, and augmented miR-126 and -125b expression, which regulate endothelial cell function and/or inflammation. When subthreshold numbers of EPCs were coadministered with CTCE in CLP mice they synergistically improved survival. We demonstrated that CTCE recruits endogenous EPCs in septic mice. In in vitro analysis, CTCE enhanced EPC proliferation, angiogenesis, and prosurvival signaling while inhibiting EPC senescence. These cellular effects were, in part, explained by the effect of CTCE on miR-126, -125b, -34a, and -155 expression in EPCs. CONCLUSIONS: EPCs and CTCE represent important potential therapeutic strategies in sepsis.	Animals;Anti-Inflammatory Agents/pharmacology/ therapeutic use;Biomarkers/metabolism;Chemokine CXCL12/pharmacology/ therapeutic use;Combined Modality Therapy;Cord Blood Stem Cell Transplantation;Endothelial Cells/drug effects/ transplantation;Humans;Interleukin-10/metabolism;Male;Mice;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Sepsis/immunology/metabolism/mortality/ therapy;Stem Cells/drug effects;Treatment Outcome;Ctce;endothelial progenitor cell;microRNA;sepsis
miR-19b promotes tumor growth and metastasis via targeting TP53	Y. Fan, et al.	2014	24742936	Tumor suppressor TP53 (or p53) is one of the most important regulators in numerous physiological and pathological processes. Recently, the miRNA-mediated post-transcription regulation of p53 has been studied. However, systematic studies of miRNA targeting sites within the p53 gene are still a challenging task. Here, we developed a dual-color assay capable of identifying miRNA targeting sites in a certain gene, specifically p53, in a simple, direct, and robust manner. Results showed that p53 was a direct and critical target of miR-19b, but not miR-19a, regardless of sequence similarity. Overexpression of miR-19b observed in human cancer cells can diminish p53 protein levels and, subsequently, downstream components such as Bax and p21. This miR-19b-mediated p53 reduction was shown to promote cell cycle, cell migration or invasion, and repress senescence and apoptosis in vitro. Further investigation revealed that miR-19b controls tumor growth and metastasis in vivo. Therefore, it is possible that miR-19b antagomirs or sponges could be developed as therapeutic agents against tumor development.	Apoptosis/genetics;Cell Cycle/genetics;Cell Line;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Movement/genetics;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/genetics;Down-Regulation/genetics;Genes, p53/ genetics;HEK293 Cells;HeLa Cells;Humans;MCF-7 Cells;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neoplasm Metastasis/ genetics/pathology;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ genetics;bcl-2-Associated X Protein/genetics;Tp53;miRNA;tumor metastasis
Transcriptome-wide analysis of TDP-43 binding small RNAs identifies miR-NID1 (miR-8485), a novel miRNA that represses NRXN1 expression	Z. Fan, et al.	2014	23827811	The Tar DNA-binding protein 43 (TARDBP, TDP-43) regulates RNA processing and miRNA biogenesis and is known to be involved in neurodegeneration. Messenger RNA (mRNA) targets of TDP-43 have recently been systematically identified, but small RNAs (sRNAs) bound by TDP-43 have not been studied in details. Here, we reexamine cross-linking, immunoprecipitation and sequencing (CLIP-seq) data, and identify pre-miRNAs, miRNAs and piRNAs bound by TDP-43 in human and mouse brains. Subsequent analysis of TDP-43 binding miRNAs suggests that target genes are enriched in functions involving synaptic activities. We further identify a novel miRNA (miR-NID1) processed from the intron 5 of human neurexin 1, NRXN1, and show that miR-NID1 represses NRXN1 expression by binding to TDP-43. Our results are in accordance with previously published data indicating TDP-43 through binding of specific miRNAs to play roles in neurodevelopmental activities and neurological disorders and further our understanding of TDP-43 function.	Animals;Base Sequence;Cell Adhesion Molecules, Neuronal/ genetics;Cell Line;DNA-Binding Proteins/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics;Molecular Sequence Data;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ genetics;Neural Cell Adhesion Molecules/ genetics;Nucleic Acid Conformation;Protein Binding;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Transcriptome;CA repeat;Nrxn1;Novel intronic miRNA;Tdp-43
MicroRNA-7 Enhances Subventricular Zone Neurogenesis by Inhibiting NLRP3/Caspase-1 Axis in Adult Neural Stem Cells	Z. Fan, et al.	2016	26676570	alpha-Synuclein (alpha-syn) has been recognized to induce neuroinflammation and to disturb nerve repair process in Parkinson's disease. However, the potential mechanisms underlying alpha-syn-induced impairment of adult neurogenesis remain unclear. In the present study, A53T mutant alpha--synuclein transgenic (A53Ttg/tg) mice, caspase-1 knockout mice, and A53Ttg/tg;caspase-1-/- double transgenic mice were used to prepare adult neural stem cells (ANSCs) and to investigate inflammasome-related mechanism for alpha-syn-impaired neurogenesis in mouse subventricular zone (SVZ). We showed that alpha-syn inhibited neurogenesis in the SVZ of A53Ttg/tg mice and impaired proliferation and differentiation in ANSCs cultured in vitro, accompanied by reduced microRNA-7 (miR-7) expression levels. We further found that ANSC expressed NLRP3-containing inflammasome and alpha-syn activated both TLR4/NF-kappaB and NLRP3/caspase-1 signals in ANSCs. Either Nlrp3 knockdown or Caspase-1 knockout could attenuate the inhibition of proliferation in ANSCs induced by alpha-syn. Furthermore, we demonstrated that miR-7 post-transcriptionally controlled Nlrp3 expression besides targeting alpha-syn. Most notably, stereotactic injection of miR-7 mimics into lateral ventricles significantly inhibited NLRP3 inflammasome activation and improved adult neurogenesis in mouse SVZ. Our study provides a direct link between NLRP3 inflammasome activation and alpha-syn-impaired neurogenesis in the pathogenesis of alpha-synucleinopathies.	NLRP3 inflammasome;Neural stem cell;Neurogenesis;Parkinson's disease;microRNA-7
MicroRNA-181c Ameliorates Cognitive Impairment Induced by Chronic Cerebral Hypoperfusion in Rats	C. Fang, et al.	2016	27933582	Chronic cerebral hypoperfusion (CCH) characterized by global cerebral ischemia is an important risk factor contributing to the development of dementia. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play important roles in the cellular adaptation to long-term ischemia/hypoxia by turning off or on the expression of target genes. MiR-181c is widely expressed in the nervous system, and tripartite motif 2 (TRIM2) is one of its target genes. In this work, we had identified that progressive spatial memory deficiency was induced in the bilateral common carotid artery occlusion (2-VO) rat models. Meanwhile, inhibition of miR-181c expression and upregulation of TRIM2 in the hippocampus of 2-VO rats were found accompanying with reduction in the dendritic branching and dendrite spine density of the hippocampal neurons. Viral vector-mediated miR-181c delivery might improve the cognitive deficiency via TRIM2 on neurofilament light (NF-L) ubiquitination resulting in remodeling of the hippocampal neurons as well as increase in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor 1 (NR1) subunit cell surface expression. Meanwhile, miR-181c might rescue the cellular activity from ischemia/hypoxia. These results indicated a novel miRNA-mediated mechanism involving miR-181c and TRIM2 in the cognitive impairment induced by CCH and provided a rationale for the development of miRNA-based strategies for prevention of dementia.	Chronic cerebral hypoperfusion;Cognition;MicroRNA-181c;Rat;Tripartite motif 2;Ubiquitination
A set of miRNAs participates in the cellular senescence program in human diploid fibroblasts	R. Faraonio, et al.	2012	22052189	Here we show that replicative senescence in normal human diploid IMR90 fibroblasts is accompanied by altered expression of a set of microRNAs (miRNAs) (senescence-associated miRNAs), with 14 and 10 miRNAs being either up or downregulated (>2-fold), respectively, in senescent with respect to young cells. The expression of most of these miRNAs was also deregulated upon senescence induced by DNA damage (etoposide) or mild oxidative stress (diethylmaleate). Four downregulated miRNAs were part of miRNA family-17, recently associated to human cell and tissue aging. Moreover, eight upregulated and six downregulated miRNAs mapped in specific chromosomal clusters, suggesting common transcriptional regulation. Upon adoptive overexpression, seven upregulated miRNAs induced the formation of senescence-associated heterochromatin foci and senescence-associated beta-galactosidase staining (P<0.05), which was accompanied, in the case of five of them, by reduced cell proliferation. Finally, miR-210, miR-376a(*), miR-486-5p, miR-494, and miR-542-5p induced double-strand DNA breaks and reactive oxygen species accumulation in transfected cells. In conclusion, we have identified a set of human miRNAs induced during replicative and chemically induced senescence that are able to foster the senescent phenotype by prompting DNA damage.	Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic/pharmacokinetics/pharmacology;Cell Aging/drug effects/ physiology;Cells, Cultured;DNA Breaks, Double-Stranded;Diploidy;Etoposide/pharmacology;Fibroblasts/cytology/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects/ physiology;Humans;Maleates/pharmacology;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Oxidative Stress/drug effects/physiology;Transcription, Genetic/drug effects/ physiology
The Identification of Circulating MiRNA in Bovine Serum and Their Potential as Novel Biomarkers of Early Mycobacterium avium subsp paratuberculosis Infection	D. Farrell, et al.	2015	26218736	Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP) is the aetiological agent of Johne's disease (JD), a chronic enteritis in ruminants that causes substantial economic loses to agriculture worldwide. Current diagnostic assays are hampered by low sensitivity and specificity that seriously complicate disease control; a new generation of diagnostic and prognostic assays are therefore urgently needed. Circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) have been shown to have significant potential as novel biomarkers for a range of human diseases, but their potential application in the veterinary sphere has been less well characterised. The aim of this study was therefore to apply RNA-sequencing approaches to serum from an experimental JD infection model as a route to identify novel diagnostic and prognostic miRNA biomarkers. Sera from experimental MAP-challenged calves (n = 6) and age-matched controls (n = 6) were used. We identified a subset of known miRNAs from bovine serum across all samples, with approximately 90 being at potentially functional abundance levels. The majority of known bovine miRNAs displayed multiple isomiRs that differed from the canonical sequences. Thirty novel miRNAs were identified after filtering and were found within sera from all animals tested. No significant differential miRNA expression was detected when comparing sera from MAP-challenged animals to their age-matched controls at six-month's post-infection. However, comparing sera from pre-infection bleeds to six-month's post-infection across all 12 animals did identify increased miR-205 (2-fold) and decreased miR-432 (2-fold) within both challenged and control groups, which suggests changes in circulating miRNA profiles due to ageing or development (P<0.00001). In conclusion our study has identified a range of novel miRNA in bovine serum, and shown the utility of small RNA sequencing approaches to explore the potential of miRNA as novel biomarkers for infectious disease in cattle.	Animals;Base Sequence;Biomarkers/ blood;Cattle;Cattle Diseases/blood/ diagnosis/genetics/microbiology;Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay/veterinary;Humans;Interferon-gamma/secretion;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/genetics;Molecular Sequence Data;Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis/ isolation & purification;Nucleic Acid Conformation;Paratuberculosis/blood/ diagnosis/genetics/microbiology
Inducing cell proliferative prevention in human acute promyelocytic leukemia by miR-182 inhibition through modulation of CASP9 expression	M. Fasihi-Ramandi, et al.	2017	28298075	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are one class of endogenous non-coding RNAs that involved in post-transcriptional regulation of the gene. MiRNAs through interaction with messenger RNA (mRNA) involved in several biological processes such as cell cycle, differentiation, growth, metabolism, aging and apoptosis. MiRNAs may act as an oncogene or a tumor suppressor via up or down regulation in cancerous cells. MiR-182 located in a miR-183/-96/-182 cluster, this is the highly conserved cluster to have an important role in cancer development and tumorigenesis. Abnormal expression of miR-182 in a variety of human cancers has reported. Oncogenic features of miR-182 confirmed through negative regulation of various tumor suppressor genes. In this study, miR-182 inhibition in acute promyelocytic leukemia (APL) cell line (HL60) was performed by locked nucleic acid (LNA) anti-miR. MTT assay in three-time points 24, 48 and 72h after LNA-anti-miR-182 transfection was performed. Our study demonstrated inhibition of miR-182 can expansively decrease cell proliferation of APL cells. The Western blotting analysis presents that CASP9 expression associated with inhibition of miR-182. CASP9 protein has an important role in the mitochondrial cell death pathway as the initiator of apoptosis. These results can offer a way for inhibition of APL cells proliferates and produce translational medicine based on microgenomics and antisense therapy.	Acute promyelocytic leukemia;Casp9;Lna;MiR-182
Novel insights into role of miR-320a-VDAC1 axis in astrocyte-mediated neuronal damage in neuroAIDS	M. Fatima, et al.	2017	27761954	Astroglia are indispensable component of the tripartite synapse ensheathing innumerous soma and synapses. Its proximity to neurons aids the regulation of neuronal functions, health and survival through dynamic neuroglia crosstalk. Susceptibility of astrocyte to HIV-1 infection and subsequent latency culminates in compromised neuronal health. The viral protein HIV-1 transactivator of transcription (Tat) is neurotoxic. HIV-1 Tat is detected in brain of AIDS patients even in cases where viral load is non-detectable due to successful HAART therapy. Recently, we demonstrated that HIV-1 Tat triggers excess ATP release from astrocytes that causes neuronal death by activating purinergic receptor system. Using well-characterized model system of human primary astrocytes and neurons, we probed into the molecular mechanism for enhanced ATP release in HIV-1 Tat affected astrocytes. HIV-1 Tat modulated the miRNA machinery in astrocytes and perturbed the levels of voltage dependent anion channel 1 (VDAC1), a channel present in the outer mitochondrial membrane and plasma membrane that regulates extracellular ATP release. Our studies with autopsy tissue sections also showed concordantly dysregulated VDAC1 and miR-320a levels in HIV-1 patients suffering from mild cognitive impairment (MCI). We report a novel molecular cascade of miRNA-mediated ATP release through regulation of VDAC1. Downregulation of VDAC1 either with miR-320a mimic or VDAC1 siRNA in HIV-1 Tat-affected astroglia could rescue the neurons from glia-mediated indirect death. Our findings reveal a novel upstream therapeutic target that could be employed to thwart the astroglia-mediated neurotoxicity in HIV-1 neuropathogenesis. GLIA 2017;65:250-263.	ATP release;HIV-1 Tat;miRNA;neuroAIDS;voltage-dependent anion channel 1
Characterization of small RNAs in X. tropicalis gastrulae	F. Faunes, et al.	2012	22566284	Here, we report and characterize deep sequencing data and bioinformatics analysis of small RNAs from X. tropicalis gastrula. A total of 17,553,124 reads with perfect match to the genome derived from 2,616,053 unique sequences were identified. Seventy-seven percent of theses sequences were not found in previous reports from X. tropicalis oocytes and somatic tissues. Bioinformatics analyses indicate that a large fraction of the small RNAs are PIWI-interacting RNAs. Up to 23.9% of small RNAs mapped to transposable elements and 27% to genic regions. Most of the abundant transposon-derived small RNAs are found in oocyte and gastrula libraries, suggesting that transposons also need to be silenced during early embryonic development. Importantly, novel clusters of piRNAs whose expression is activated after zygotic transcription begins were identified in the genome of X. tropicalis. Additionally, miRNAs were also identified and many of them are not present in oocytes, suggesting that miRNA expression is stage-specific. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first high throughput data release and bioinformatics characterization of small RNAs during Xenopus early embryonic development.	Animals;Base Sequence;Chromosome Mapping;Computational Biology;DNA Transposable Elements;Embryo, Nonmammalian;Embryonic Development;Gastrula/ metabolism;Gastrulation/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Genomic Library;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Molecular Sequence Data;Oocytes/physiology;RNA, Small Untranslated/chemistry/ genetics/isolation & purification;Sequence Analysis, DNA;Xenopus/ genetics
Characterization of small RNAs in Xenopus tropicalis gastrulae	F. Faunes, et al.	2012	22253037	Here, we report and characterize deep sequencing data and bioinformatics analysis of small RNAs from Xenopus tropicalis gastrula. A total of 17,553,124 reads with perfect match to the genome derived from 2,616,053 unique sequences were identified. Seventy-seven percent of theses sequences were not found in previous reports from X. tropicalis oocytes and somatic tissues. Bioinformatics analyses indicate that a large fraction of the small RNAs are PIWI-interacting RNAs. Up to 23.9% of small RNAs mapped to transposable elements and 27% to genic regions. Most of abundant transposable derived small RNAs are found in oocyte and gastrula libraries, suggesting that transposon needs to be silenced also during early development. Additionally, miRNAs were identified and many of them are not present in oocytes, suggesting that miRNA expression is stage specific. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first high throughput data release and bioinformatics characterization of small RNAs during Xenopus development.	Animals;Base Sequence;Chromosome Mapping;Gastrula/ metabolism;Gastrulation/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Gene Library;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Oocytes/metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/ genetics/metabolism;Retroelements/genetics;Xenopus/ embryology/ genetics/metabolism
Exploring ncRNAs in Alzheimer's disease by miRMaster	T. Fehlmann, et al.	2017	28030833		Ngs;miRNA;microRNA;nc-RNA
MicroRNA regulation of adipose derived stem cells in aging rats	J. Fei, et al.	2013	23516615	BACKGROUND: Perturbations in abdominal fat secreted adipokines play a key role in metabolic syndrome. This process is further altered during the aging process, probably due to alterations in the preadipocytes (aka. stromal vascular fraction cells-SVF cells or adipose derived stem cells-ASCs) composition and/or function. Since microRNAs regulate genes involved both in development and aging processes, we hypothesized that the impaired adipose function with aging is due to altered microRNA regulation of adipogenic pathways in SVF cells. METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Alterations in mRNA and proteins associated with adipogenic differentiation (ERK5 and PPARg) but not osteogenic (RUNX2) pathways were observed in SVF cells isolated from visceral adipose tissue with aging (6 to 30 mo) in female Fischer 344 x Brown Norway Hybrid (FBN) rats. The impaired differentiation capacity with aging correlated with altered levels of miRNAs involved in adipocyte differentiation (miRNA-143) and osteogenic pathways (miRNA-204). Gain and loss of function studies using premir or antagomir-143 validated the age associated adipocyte dysfunction. CONCLUSIONS AND SIGNIFICANCE: Our studies for the first time indicate a role for miRNA mediated regulation of SVF cells with aging. This discovery is important in the light of the findings that dysfunctional adipose derived stem cells contribute to age related chronic diseases.	Adipocytes/ cytology/ metabolism;Adipose Tissue/cytology;Aging/genetics/ physiology;Animals;Cell Differentiation/genetics/physiology;Core Binding Factor Alpha 1 Subunit/genetics/metabolism;Female;Intra-Abdominal Fat/cytology/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase 7/genetics/metabolism;PPAR gamma/genetics/metabolism;Rats;Stem Cells/ cytology/ metabolism
MicroRNAs and Aging: Biomarkers or Therapeutic Targets?	K. Felekkis	2016	27889998	Understanding the molecular mechanism of aging is of utmost importance to the scientific communities. Various theories have been proposed up to date and many of them were evaluated as potential targets in the battle against aging. MicroRNAs, the universal gene expression regulators, were found to be associated with the aging process as many of them have been linked to biological process associated with cellular deterioration. In this short report, we briefly review the contribution of miRNAs to the aging process and offer an opinion as to how the knowledge of therole of these molecules in aging can be utilized.	
MicroRNAs Regulate Key Effector Pathways of Senescence	A. Feliciano, et al.	2011	21629746	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small (approximately 22 nt) noncoding endogenous RNA molecules that regulate gene expression and protein coding by base pairing with the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of target mRNAs. miRNA expression is associated with cancer pathogenesis because miRNAs are intimately linked to cancer development. Senescence blocks cell proliferation, representing an important barrier that cells must bypass to reach malignancy. Importantly, certain miRNAs have been shown to have an important role during cellular senescence, which is also involved in human tumorigenesis. Therefore, therapeutic induction of senescence by drugs or miRNA-based therapies is a potential method to treat cancer by inducing a persistent growth arrest in tumors.	
The exonuclease Nibbler regulates age-associated traits and modulates piRNA length in Drosophila	V. L. Feltzin, et al.	2015	25754031	Nibbler (Nbr) is a 3'-to-5' exonuclease that trims the 3'end of microRNAs (miRNAs) to generate different length patterns of miRNAs in Drosophila. Despite its effect on miRNAs, we lack knowledge of its biological significance and whether Nbr affects other classes of small RNAs such as piRNAs and endo-siRNAs. Here, we characterized the in vivo function of nbr by defining the Nbr protein expression pattern and loss-of-function effects. Nbr protein is enriched in the ovary and head. Analysis of nbr null animals reveals adult-stage defects that progress with age, including held-up wings, decreased locomotion, and brain vacuoles, indicative of accelerated age-associated processes upon nbr loss. Importantly, these effects depend on catalytic residues in the Nbr exonuclease domain, indicating that the catalytic activity is responsible for these effects. Given the impact of nbr on miRNAs, we also analyzed the effect of nbr on piRNA and endo-siRNA lengths by deep-sequence analysis of libraries from ovaries. As with miRNAs, nbr mutation led to longer length piRNAs - an effect that was dependent on the catalytic residues of the exonuclease domain. These analyses indicate a role of nbr on age-associated processes and to modulate length of multiple classes of small RNAs including miRNAs and piRNAs in Drosophila.	Aging;Animals;Argonaute Proteins/metabolism;Drosophila Proteins/ metabolism;Drosophila melanogaster/genetics/ metabolism;Exoribonucleases/ metabolism;Female;MicroRNAs/genetics;Ovary/metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/ genetics;Nibbler;endo-siRNA;miRNA;piRNA
Regulatory factor X1 depresses ApoE-dependent Abeta uptake by miRNA-124 in microglial response to oxidative stress	C. Z. Feng, et al.	2017	28003160	Decreased proteolytic clearance of soluble amyloid beta (Abeta) in microglia affects Abeta accumulation on Alzheimer's disease progression. However, the potential molecular mechanism by which microglial Abeta uptake is regulated remains unclear. In this study, we identified a microRNA, miR-124, that was down-regulated in aging with a function in regulating apolipoprotein E (ApoE)-dependent Abeta uptake by targeting regulatory factor X1 (RFX1) transcripts on BV2 microglia cell. Decreased expression of miRNA-124 in BV2 cells exposed to mild hydrogen peroxide increased RFX1 protein level and decreased the expression of ApoE, a gene which has been suggested to enhance cellular Abeta uptake in microglia. We also identified a miR-124 binding site in the 3'-UTR of RFX1 mRNA and a RFX1 binding site in the first intron of ApoE gene. Furthermore, interfering this signaling pathway by knocking down RFX1 significantly improved Abeta uptake in BV2 cells. These data demonstrate the mechanism through which decreased miR-124 expression under oxidative stress slowed Abeta uptake and suggest that RFX1 might be a target for improving Abeta clearance during aging.	Alzheimer's disease;ApoE;Abeta uptake;Rfx1;miR-124
MicroRNA-27 enhances differentiation of myeloblasts into granulocytes by post-transcriptionally downregulating Runx1	J. Feng, et al.	2009	19298589	We investigated the regulation of the transcription factor Runx1 by microRNA (miR)-27 and the resulting effects upon the differentiation of myeloblasts into granulocytes. When 32D.cl3 cell differentiation was induced using granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (CSF3), Runx1 transcription was moderately downregulated, while Runx1 protein levels were completely inhibited, suggesting an involvement of post-transcriptional regulation. Simultaneously, levels of miR-27 and its precursor increased substantially. Reporter assays revealed that miR-27 targets the 3'UTR of the Runx1 transcript. Furthermore, introduction of pre-miR-27 alone into 32D.cl3 cells resulted in downregulation of Runx1 protein, thereby allowing the cell differentiation even in the absence of CSF3. Conversely, transduction of anti-miR-27 caused upregulation of Runx1 protein, thereby antagonizing the CSF3-mediated granulocyte differentiation. Finally, the CSF3-induced transcription factor C/EBPalpha enhanced transcription of a host gene of miR-27, C9orf3, via activation of its promoter. Thus, miR-27 enhances differentiation of myeloblasts into granulocytes via post-transcriptional downregulation of Runx1.	3' Untranslated Regions;Animals;Cell Differentiation/physiology;Cell Line;Core Binding Factor Alpha 2 Subunit/analysis/ genetics/metabolism;Electroporation;Gene Expression;Gene Expression Regulation;Granulocyte Precursor Cells/ physiology;Granulocytes/ physiology;HeLa Cells;Humans;Immunoblotting;Luciferases, Firefly/genetics;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Promoter Regions, Genetic;RNA Interference;RNA, Small Interfering/pharmacology;Receptors, Colony-Stimulating Factor/genetics/metabolism;Transfection/methods
Increased micro-RNA 29b in the aged brain correlates with the reduction of insulin-like growth factor-1 and fractalkine ligand	A. M. Fenn, et al.	2013	23880139	Microglia develop an inflammatory phenotype during normal aging. The mechanism by which this occurs is not well understood, but might be related to impairments in several key immunoregulatory systems. Here we show that micro-RNA (miR)-29a and miR-29b, 2 immunoregulatory micro-RNAs, were increased in the brain of aged BALB/c mice compared with adults. Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and fractalkine ligand (CX3CL1) are negative modulators of microglial activation and were identified as targets of miR-29a and miR-29b using luciferase assay and primary microglia transfection. Indeed, higher expression of miR-29b in the brain of aged mice was associated with reduced messenger RNA (mRNA) levels of IGF-1 and CX3CL1. Parallel to these results in mice, miR-29a and miR-29b were also markedly increased in cortical brain tissue of older individuals (mean, 77 years) compared with middle-aged adults (mean, 45 years). Moreover, increased expression of miR-29b in human cortical tissue was negatively correlated with IGF-1 and CX3CL1 expression. Collectively, these data indicate that an age-associated increase in miR-29 corresponded with the reduction of 2 important regulators of microglia, IGF-1 and CX3CL1.	Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Cerebral Cortex/ metabolism;Chemokine CX3CL1/ metabolism;Humans;Insulin-Like Growth Factor I/genetics/ metabolism;Ligands;Male;Mice, Inbred BALB C;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Microglia/ metabolism;Middle Aged;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Receptors, Chemokine/genetics/ metabolism;Young Adult;Aging;Fractalkine;Insulin-like growth factor;Microglia;Neuroinflammation;miR-29a;miR-29b
MicroRNA association with synucleinopathy conversion in rapid eye movement behavior disorder	R. Fernandez-Santiago, et al.	2015	25675938	Recently, we reported downregulated circulating levels of the microRNAs miR-19b, miR-29a, and miR-29c in Parkinson disease. Here we investigated the expression of these microRNAs in serum samples from 56 patients with idiopathic rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder, before and after their conversion into a synucleinopathy. Compared to controls, we found that the expression level of miR-19b is downregulated in patients with idiopathic rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder and antedates the diagnosis of Parkinson disease and dementia with Lewy bodies after 4.67 +/- 2.61 years of follow-up. Our findings indicate that dysregulation of the microRNA miR-19b occurs in the prodromal stage of synucleinopathies.	Aged;Biomarkers/blood;Disease Progression;Female;Follow-Up Studies;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood;Middle Aged;REM Sleep Behavior Disorder/ blood/ diagnosis;Synucleins/ blood
WNT signaling suppression in the senescent human thymus	S. Ferrando-Martinez, et al.	2015	24657825	Human thymus is completely developed in late fetal stages and its function peaks in newborns. After the first year of life, the thymus undergoes a progressive atrophy that dramatically decreases de novo T-lymphocyte maturation. Hormonal signaling and changes in the microRNA expression network are identified as underlying causes of human thymus involution. However, specific pathways involved in the age-related loss of thymic function remain unknown. In this study, we analyzed differential gene-expression profile and microRNA expression in elderly (70 years old) and young (less than 10 months old and 11 years old) human thymic samples. Our data have shown that WNT pathway deregulation through the overexpression of different inhibitors by the nonadipocytic component of the human thymus stimulates the age-related involution. These results are of particular interest because interference of WNT signaling has been demonstrated in both animal models and in vitro studies, with the three major hallmarks of thymic involution: (i) epithelial structure disruption, (ii) adipogenic process, and (iii) thymocyte development arrest. Thus, our results suggest that secreted inhibitors of the WNT pathway could be explored as a novel therapeutical target in the reversal of the age-related thymic involution.	Adipocytes/physiology;Aged;Aging/pathology/ physiology;Atrophy/etiology;Child;Child, Preschool;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Infant;Male;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Microarray Analysis;Middle Aged;Thymus Gland/ pathology;Wnt Signaling Pathway/ physiology;Aging.;Human thymus;Thymus involution;WNT pathway
A multidimensional network approach reveals microRNAs as determinants of the mesenchymal colorectal cancer subtype	E. Fessler, et al.	2016	27157610	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a heterogeneous disease posing a challenge for accurate classification and treatment of this malignancy. There is no common genetic molecular feature that would allow for the identification of patients at risk for developing recurrences and thus selecting patients who would benefit from more stringent therapies still poses a major clinical challenge. Recently, an international multicenter consortium (CRC Subtyping Consortium) was established aiming at the classification of CRC patients in biologically homogeneous CRC subtypes. Four consensus molecular subtypes (CMSs) were identified, of which the mesenchymal CMS4 presented with worse prognosis signifying the importance of identifying these patients. Despite the large number of samples analyzed and their clear association with unifying biological programs and clinical features, single-driver mutations could not be identified and patients are heterogeneous with regard to currently used clinical markers. We therefore set out to define the regulatory mechanisms underlying the distinct gene expression profiles using a network-based approach involving multiple molecular modalities such as gene expression, methylation levels and microRNA (miR) expression. The miR-200 family presented as the most powerful determinant of CMS4-specific gene expression, tuning the majority of genes differentially expressed in the poor prognosis subtype, including genes associated with the epithelial-mesenchymal transition program. Furthermore, our data show that two epigenetic marks, namely the methylation of the two miR-200 promoter regions, can identify tumors belonging to the mesenchymal subtype and is predictive of disease-free survival in CRC patients. Importantly, epigenetic silencing of the miR-200 family is also detected in epithelial CRC cell lines that belong to the mesenchymal CMS. We thus show that determining regulatory networks is a powerful strategy to define drivers of distinct cancer subtypes, which possess the ability to identify subtype affiliation and to shed light on biological behavior.	
The Arabidopsis C2H2 zinc finger INDETERMINATE DOMAIN1/ENHYDROUS promotes the transition to germination by regulating light and hormonal signaling during seed maturation	J. A. Feurtado, et al.	2011	21571950	Seed development ends with a maturation phase that imparts desiccation tolerance, nutrient reserves, and dormancy degree. Here, we report the functional analysis of an Arabidopsis thaliana C2H2 zinc finger protein INDETERMINATE DOMAIN1 (IDD1)/ENHYDROUS (ENY). Ectopic expression of IDD1/ENY (2x35S:ENY) disrupted seed development, delaying endosperm depletion and testa senescence, resulting in an abbreviated maturation program. Consequently, mature 2x35S:ENY seeds had increased endosperm-specific fatty acids, starch retention, and defective mucilage extrusion. Using RAB18 promoter ENY lines (RAB18:ENY) to confine expression to maturation, when native ENY expression increased and peaked, resulted in mature seed with lower abscisic acid (ABA) content and decreased germination sensitivity to applied ABA. Furthermore, results of far-red and red light treatments of 2x35S:ENY and RAB18:ENY germinating seeds, and of artificial microRNA knockdown lines, suggest that ENY acts to promote germination. After using RAB18:ENY seedlings to induce ENY during ABA application, key genes in gibberellin (GA) metabolism and signaling were differentially regulated in a manner suggesting negative feedback regulation. Furthermore, GA treatment resulted in a skotomorphogenic-like phenotype in light-grown 2x35S:ENY and RAB18:ENY seedlings. The physical interaction of ENY with DELLAs and an ENY-triggered accumulation of DELLA transcripts during maturation support the conclusion that ENY mediates GA effects to balance ABA-promoted maturation during late seed development.	Abscisic Acid/analysis/metabolism;Arabidopsis/genetics/growth & development/ physiology/radiation effects;Arabidopsis Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Endosperm/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Gene Expression Regulation, Plant;Germination/ physiology/radiation effects;Gibberellins/metabolism;Light;Molecular Sequence Data;Mutation;Plant Growth Regulators/analysis/metabolism;Plants, Genetically Modified/genetics/metabolism;Protein Interaction Maps;RNA, Messenger/genetics;RNA, Plant/genetics;Seedlings/growth & development/metabolism/radiation effects;Seeds/ growth & development/metabolism/radiation effects;Signal Transduction/ physiology/radiation effects;Tobacco/genetics/metabolism;Zinc Fingers
Blocking miRNA Biogenesis in Adult Forebrain Neurons Enhances Seizure Susceptibility, Fear Memory, and Food Intake by Increasing Neuronal Responsiveness	A. Fiorenza, et al.	2016	25595182	The RNase Dicer is essential for the maturation of most microRNAs, a molecular system that plays an essential role in fine-tuning gene expression. To gain molecular insight into the role of Dicer and the microRNA system in brain function, we conducted 2 complementary RNA-seq screens in the hippocampus of inducible forebrain-restricted Dicer1 mutants aimed at identifying the microRNAs primarily affected by Dicer loss and their targets, respectively. Functional genomics analyses predicted the main biological processes and phenotypes associated with impaired microRNA maturation, including categories related to microRNA biology, signal transduction, seizures, and synaptic transmission and plasticity. Consistent with these predictions, we found that, soon after recombination, Dicer-deficient mice exhibited an exaggerated seizure response, enhanced induction of immediate early genes in response to different stimuli, stronger and more stable fear memory, hyperphagia, and increased excitability of CA1 pyramidal neurons. In the long term, we also observed slow and progressive excitotoxic neurodegeneration. Overall, our results indicate that interfering with microRNA biogenesis causes an increase in neuronal responsiveness and disrupts homeostatic mechanisms that protect the neuron against overactivation, which may explain both the initial and late phenotypes associated with the loss of Dicer in excitatory neurons.	Action Potentials/genetics;Animals;CA1 Region, Hippocampal/metabolism/physiopathology;Conditioning, Classical;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/ genetics;Fear/physiology;Female;Hyperphagia/genetics/metabolism;Kainic Acid/administration & dosage;Male;Memory/ physiology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/ biosynthesis;Neuronal Plasticity;Neurons/metabolism/ physiology;Phenotype;Prosencephalon/metabolism/ physiopathology;Ribonuclease III/ genetics;Seizures/chemically induced/genetics/ metabolism;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Dicer;activity-driven transcription;epilepsy;learning and memory;miRNAs;neuronal excitability;neuronal homeostasis;obesity;regulation of gene expression
Clinical and molecular characterization of a second family with the 12q14 microdeletion syndrome and review of the literature	R. Fischetto, et al.	2017	28407409	The 12q14 microdeletion syndrome is a rare condition characterized by low birth weight, failure to thrive, short stature, learning disabilities, and osteopoikilosis. To date, 20 cases of 12q14 deletion have been reported in the literature, displaying both phenotypic than genetic variability. We report on three familial cases, a mother and two brothers, with severe short stature. The mother and elder brother presented with osteopoikilosis while the younger brother had severe short stature and developmental delay. SNP array analysis revealed a 1.9 Mb heterozygous 12q14.2q14.3 deletion in all three patients encompassing 14 genes and 3 miRNAs. In addition, the younger brother carried a paternal 11q13.4 duplication including the SHANK2 gene. This latter patient was investigated for developmental delay and did not show osteopoikilosis, confirming the role of age in the clinical presentation of this condition. To the best of our knowledge, this is the second family described with the syndrome. Comparing the clinical and molecular data of our patients with those previously reported we performed a detailed genotype-phenotype correlation confirming the association between growth retardation and osteopoikilosis when the rearrangement includes both LEMD3 and HMGA2 genes. In addition, we suggest the XPOT, TBK1, WIF1 genes as candidates for the clinical features observed in our patients and discuss for the first time the possible involvement of some microRNAs, when deleted, in the etiology of the phenotypes in 12q14 microdeletion syndrome patients. We expect the interpretation of our findings to be useful both from a molecular point of view and for genetic counseling.	12q14.2q14.3 microdeletion;SNP array analysis;osteopoikilosis
Silencing of genes responsible for polyQ diseases using chemically modified single-stranded siRNAs	A. Fiszer, et al.	2016	27770571	Polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases comprise a group of nine genetic disorders that are caused by the expansion of the CAG triplet repeat, which encodes glutamine, in unrelated single genes. Various oligonucleotide (ON)-based therapeutic approaches have been considered for polyQ diseases. The very attractive CAG repeat-targeting strategy offers selective silencing of the mutant allele by directly targeting the mutation site. CAG repeat-targeting miRNA-like siRNAs have been shown to specifically inhibit the mutant gene expression, and their characteristic feature is the formation of mismatches in their interactions with the target site. Here, we designed novel single-stranded siRNAs that contain base substitutions and chemical modifications, in order to develop improved therapeutic tools with universal properties for several polyQ diseases. We tested these ONs in cellular models of Huntington's disease (HD), spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3) and dentatorubral-pallidoluysian atrophy (DRPLA). Selected siRNAs caused the efficient and selective downregulation of the mutant huntingtin, ataxin-3 and atrophin-1 levels in cultured human fibroblasts. We also prove the efficiency of novel ONs, with chemical modification pattern mainly containing 2'-fluoro (2'F), in HD mouse striatal cells.	Animals;Cell Line;Genetic Therapy;Halogenation;Humans;Huntingtin Protein/genetics;Huntington Disease/genetics/therapy;Mice;Peptides/genetics;RNA Interference;RNA Stability;RNA, Small Interfering/ genetics;Trinucleotide Repeats
An evaluation of oligonucleotide-based therapeutic strategies for polyQ diseases	A. Fiszer, et al.	2012	22397573	BACKGROUND: RNA interference (RNAi) and antisense strategies provide experimental therapeutic agents for numerous diseases, including polyglutamine (polyQ) disorders caused by CAG repeat expansion. We compared the potential of different oligonucleotide-based strategies for silencing the genes responsible for several polyQ diseases, including Huntington's disease and two spinocerebellar ataxias, type 1 and type 3. The strategies included nonallele-selective gene silencing, gene replacement, allele-selective SNP targeting and CAG repeat targeting. RESULTS: Using the patient-derived cell culture models of polyQ diseases, we tested various siRNAs, and antisense reagents and assessed their silencing efficiency and allele selectivity. We showed considerable allele discrimination by several SNP targeting siRNAs based on a weak G-G or G-U pairing with normal allele and strong G-C pairing with mutant allele at the site of RISC-induced cleavage. Among the CAG repeat targeting reagents the strongest allele discrimination is achieved by miRNA-like functioning reagents that bind to their targets and inhibit their translation without substantial target cleavage. Also, morpholino analog performs well in mutant and normal allele discrimination but its efficient delivery to cells at low effective concentration still remains a challenge. CONCLUSIONS: Using three cellular models of polyQ diseases and the same experimental setup we directly compared the performance of different oligonucleotide-based treatment strategies that are currently under development. Based on the results obtained by us and others we discussed the advantages and drawbacks of these strategies considering them from several different perspectives. The strategy aimed at nonallele-selective inhibiting of causative gene expression by targeting specific sequence of the implicated gene is the easiest to implement but relevant benefits are still uncertain. The gene replacement strategy that combines the nonallele-selective gene silencing with the expression of the exogenous normal allele is a logical extension of the former and it deserves to be explored further. Both allele-selective RNAi approaches challenge cellular RNA interference machinery to show its ability to discriminate between similar sequences differing in either single base substitutions or repeated sequence length. Although both approaches perform well in allele discrimination most of our efforts are focused on repeat targeting due to its potentially higher universality.	Alleles;Ataxin-3;Cell Line;Drug Evaluation, Preclinical;Gene Silencing;Genetic Therapy;Humans;Huntingtin Protein;Huntington Disease/ genetics/therapy;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Nuclear Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Oligonucleotides/genetics/metabolism/ therapeutic use;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics/metabolism/therapeutic use;Repressor Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Spinocerebellar Ataxias/ genetics/therapy
Monoamine oxidase-A knockdown in human neuroblastoma cells reveals protection against mitochondrial toxins	J. C. Fitzgerald, et al.	2014	24051032	The study examined how the mitochondrial enzyme monoamine oxidase-A (MAO-A), which produces hydrogen peroxide as a catalytic by-product, influences death and survival mechanisms. Targeted microRNA (miRNA) was used to stably knock down MAO-A mRNA, protein, and catalytic activity by 60-70% in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells. The effects of MAO-A knockdown (KD) on ATP, oxidative stress, electron transport chain, and survival following exposure to mitochondrial toxins were assessed. In control cells, complex I inhibition resulted in caspase-mediated cell death linked with ROS production and reduced ATP, followed by up-regulation of MAO-A mRNA, protein, and enzyme activity levels. Inhibition of complex III and IV resulted in a similar increase in MAO-A expression, while up-regulation of MAO-A was lower following complex II inhibition. MAO-A KD decreased basal reactive oxygen species levels by 50% and increased levels of ATP and reduced glutathione and Bcl-2. MAO-A KD specifically increased the activity of complex I but had no effect on complex II-IV activities. Furthermore, MAO-A KD protected against inhibitors of complex I, III, and IV. In summary, endogenous MAO-A levels influence mitochondrial function, notably complex I activity, and MAO-A may be a target for protection against neurodegenerative conditions that involve oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction as underlying pathogenic factors.	Adenosine Triphosphate/metabolism;Cell Line, Tumor;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics;Mitochondria/metabolism;Monoamine Oxidase/genetics/ metabolism;Neuroblastoma/genetics/ metabolism;Parkinson Disease/genetics/metabolism;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Parkinson's disease;electron transport chain;neurodegeneration;reactive oxygen species
Circulating microRNA-320a and microRNA-486 predict thiazolidinedione response: Moving towards precision health for diabetes prevention	E. Flowers, et al.	2015	26031505	INTRODUCTION: The aims of this study were to compare microRNA (miR) expression between individuals with and without insulin resistance and to determine whether miRs predict response to thiazolidinedione treatment. MATERIALS AND METHODS: In a sample of 93 healthy adults, insulin resistance was defined as steady state plasma glucose (SSPG)>/=180 mg/dL and insulin sensitive as <120 mg/dL. Response to thiazolidinedione therapy was defined as >/=10% decrease in SSPG. We selected a panel of microRNAs based on prior evidence for a role in insulin or glucose metabolism. Fold change and Wilcoxon rank sum tests were calculated for the 25 miRs measured. RESULTS: At baseline, 81% (n=75) of participants were insulin resistant. Five miRs were differentially expressed between the insulin resistant and sensitive groups: miR-193b (1.45 fold change (FC)), miR-22-3p (1.15 FC), miR-320a (1.36 FC), miR-375 (0.59 FC), and miR-486 (1.21 FC) (all p<0.05). In the subset who were insulin resistant at baseline and received thiazolidinediones (n=47), 77% (n=36) showed improved insulin sensitivity. Six miRs were differentially expressed between responders compared to non-responders: miR-20b-5p (1.20 FC), miR-21-5p, (0.92 FC), miR-214-3p (1.13 FC), miR-22-3p (1.14 FC), miR-320a (0.98 FC), and miR-486-5p (1.25 FC) (all p<0.05). DISCUSSION: This study is the first to report miRs associated with response to a pharmacologic intervention for insulin resistance. MiR-320a and miR-486-5p identified responders to thiazolidinedione therapy among the insulin resistant group.	Adult;Biomarkers;Blood Glucose/metabolism;Databases, Genetic;Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2/prevention & control;Female;Humans;Hypoglycemic Agents/ therapeutic use;Insulin/blood;Insulin Resistance/ genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood;Middle Aged;Thiazolidinediones/ therapeutic use;Insulin resistance;MicroRNA;Precision health;Thiazolidinediones
Hypoxia supports reprogramming of mesenchymal stromal cells via induction of embryonic stem cell-specific microRNA-302 cluster and pluripotency-associated genes	S. Foja, et al.	2013	23256541	Pluripotency is characterized by specific transcription factors such as OCT4, NANOG, and SOX2, but also by pluripotency-associated microRNAs (miRs). Somatic cells can be reprogrammed by forced expression of these factors leading to induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) with characteristics similar to embryonic stem cells (ESCs). However, current reprogramming strategies are commonly based on viral delivery of the pluripotency-associated factors, which affects the integrity of the genome and impedes the use of such cells in any clinical application. In an effort to establish nonviral, nonintegrating reprogramming strategies, we examined the influence of hypoxia on the expression of pluripotency-associated factors and the ESC-specific miR-302 cluster in primary and immortalized mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs). The combination of hypoxia and fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF2) treatments led to the induction of OCT4 and NANOG in an immortalized cell line L87 and primary MSCs, accompanied with increased doubling rates and decreased senescence. Most importantly, the endogenous ECS-specific cluster miR-302 was induced upon hypoxic culture and FGF2 supplementation. Hypoxia also improved reprogramming of MSCs via episomal expression of pluripotency factors. Thus, our data illustrate that hypoxia in combination with FGF2 supplementation efficiently facilitates reprogramming of MSCs.	Cell Dedifferentiation;Cell Hypoxia/drug effects;Cell Line, Transformed;Embryonic Stem Cells/cytology/ metabolism;Fibroblast Growth Factor 2/pharmacology;Homeodomain Proteins/metabolism;Humans;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/cytology/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Multigene Family;Nanog Homeobox Protein;Octamer Transcription Factor-3/metabolism;Pluripotent Stem Cells/cytology/ metabolism
Zinc intake, microRNA dysregulation, and esophageal cancer	L. Y. Fong, et al.	2016	27280381		dietary zinc intake;dose-response;esophageal squamous cell carcinoma;microRNA dysregulation
Ambient particulate air pollution and microRNAs in elderly men	S. Fossati, et al.	2014	24257509	BACKGROUND: Ambient particulate matter (PM) has been associated with mortality and morbidity for cardiovascular disease. MicroRNAs control gene expression at a posttranscriptional level. Altered microRNA expression has been reported in processes related to cardiovascular disease and PM exposure, such as systemic inflammation, endothelial dysfunction, and atherosclerosis. Polymorphisms in microRNA-related genes could influence response to PM. METHODS: We investigated the association of exposure to ambient particles in several time windows (4-hour to 28-day moving averages) and blood leukocyte expression changes in 14 candidate microRNAs in 153 elderly males from the Normative Aging Study (examined 2005-2009). Potential effect modification by six single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in three microRNA-related genes was investigated. Fine PM (PM2.5), black carbon, organic carbon, and sulfates were measured at a stationary ambient monitoring site. Linear regression models, adjusted for potential confounders, were used to assess effects of particles and SNP-by-pollutant interaction. An in silico pathway analysis was performed on target genes of microRNAs associated with the pollutants. RESULTS: We found a negative association for pollutants in all moving averages and miR-1, -126, -135a, -146a, -155, -21, -222, and -9. The strongest associations were observed with the 7-day moving averages for PM2.5 and black carbon and with the 48-hour moving averages for organic carbon. The association with sulfates was stable across the moving averages. The in silico pathway analysis identified 18 pathways related to immune response shared by at least two microRNAs; in particular, the "high-mobility group protein B1/advanced glycosylation end product-specific receptor signaling pathway" was shared by miR-126, -146a, -155, -21, and -222. No important associations were observed for miR-125a-5p, -125b, -128, -147, -218, and -96. We found significant SNP-by-pollutant interactions for rs7813, rs910925, and rs1062923 in GEMIN4 and black carbon and PM2.5 for miR-1, -126, -146a, -222, and -9, and for rs1640299 in DGCR8 and SO4 for miR-1 and -135a. CONCLUSIONS: Exposure to ambient particles could cause a downregulation of microRNAs involved in processes related to PM exposure. Polymorphisms in GEMIN4 and DGCR8 could modify these associations.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Air Pollutants;Air Pollution/ statistics & numerical data;Cardiovascular Diseases/epidemiology/ genetics;Cohort Studies;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene-Environment Interaction;Humans;Linear Models;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Minor Histocompatibility Antigens;Multivariate Analysis;Particle Size;Particulate Matter;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Proteins/genetics;RNA-Binding Proteins;Ribonucleoproteins, Small Nuclear/genetics;Soot;Sulfates
Divergence of transcriptional landscape occurs early in B cell activation	T. Fowler, et al.	2015	25987903	BACKGROUND: Signaling via B cell receptor (BCR) and Toll-like receptors (TLRs) results in activation of B cells with distinct physiological outcomes, but transcriptional regulatory mechanisms that drive activation and distinguish these pathways remain unknown. RESULTS: Two hours after ligand exposure RNA-seq, ChIP-seq and computational methods reveal that BCR- or TLR-mediated activation of primary resting B cells proceeds via a large set of shared and a smaller subset of distinct signal-selective transcriptional responses. BCR stimulation resulted in increased global recruitment of RNA Pol II to promoters that appear to transit slowly to downstream regions. Conversely, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation involved an enhanced RNA Pol II transition from initiating to elongating mode accompanied by greater H3K4me3 activation markings compared to BCR stimulation. These rapidly diverging transcriptomic landscapes also show distinct repressing (H3K27me3) histone signatures, mutually exclusive transcription factor binding in promoters, and unique miRNA profiles. CONCLUSIONS: Upon examination of genome-wide transcription and regulatory elements, we conclude that the B cell commitment to different activation states occurs much earlier than previously thought and involves a multi-faceted receptor-specific transcriptional landscape.	
Pathway analysis of microRNA expression profile during murine osteoclastogenesis	T. Franceschetti, et al.	2014	25222202	To design novel therapeutics against bone loss, understanding the molecular mechanisms regulating osteoclastogenesis is critical. Osteoclast formation and function are tightly regulated by transcriptional, post-transcriptional and post-translational mechanisms. This stringent regulation is crucial to prevent excessive or insufficient bone resorption and to maintain bone homeostasis. microRNAs (miRNAs) are key post-transcriptional regulators that repress expression of target mRNAs controlling osteoclast proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. Disruption of miRNA-mediated regulation alters osteoclast formation and bone resorption. Prior studies profiled miRNA expression in murine osteoclast precursors treated with RANKL for 24 hours. However, a more complete miRNA signature, encompassing early, mid and late stages of osteoclastogenesis, is wanting. An Agilent microarray platform was used to analyze expression of mature miRNAs in an enriched population of murine bone marrow osteoclast precursors (depleted of B220+ and CD3+ cells) undergoing 1, 3, or 5 days of RANKL-driven differentiation. Expression of 93 miRNAs, changed by >2 fold during early, mid, and late stages of osteoclastogenesis, were identified and sorted into 7 clusters. We validated the function and expression of miR-365, miR-451, and miR-99b, which were found in distinct clusters. Inhibition of miR-365 increased osteoclast number but decreased osteoclast size, while miR-99b inhibition decreased both osteoclast number and size. In contrast, overexpression of miR-451 had no effect. Computational analyses predicted mTOR, PI3 kinase/AKT, cell-matrix interactions, actin cytoskeleton organization, focal adhesion, and axon guidance pathways to be top targets of several miRNA clusters. This suggests that many miRNA clusters differentially expressed during osteoclastogenesis converge on some key functional pathways. Overall, our study is unique in that we identified miRNAs differentially expressed during early, mid, and late osteoclastogenesis in a population of primary mouse bone marrow cells enriched for osteoclast progenitors. This novel data set contributes to our understanding of the molecular mechanisms regulating the complex process of osteoclast differentiation.	Animals;Cell Differentiation/drug effects/genetics;Cells, Cultured;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics;NFATC Transcription Factors/metabolism;Osteoclasts/ cytology/drug effects/ metabolism;Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases/metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-fos/metabolism;RANK Ligand/pharmacology;TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases/metabolism
miR-128 regulates neuronal migration, outgrowth and intrinsic excitability via the intellectual disability gene Phf6	E. Franzoni, et al.	2015	25556700	miR-128, a brain-enriched microRNA, has been implicated in the control of neurogenesis and synaptogenesis but its potential roles in intervening processes have not been addressed. We show that post-transcriptional mechanisms restrict miR-128 accumulation to post-mitotic neurons during mouse corticogenesis and in adult stem cell niches. Whereas premature miR-128 expression in progenitors for upper layer neurons leads to impaired neuronal migration and inappropriate branching, sponge-mediated inhibition results in overmigration. Within the upper layers, premature miR-128 expression reduces the complexity of dendritic arborization, associated with altered electrophysiological properties. We show that Phf6, a gene mutated in the cognitive disorder Borjeson-Forssman-Lehmann syndrome, is an important regulatory target for miR-128. Restoring PHF6 expression counteracts the deleterious effect of miR-128 on neuronal migration, outgrowth and intrinsic physiological properties. Our results place miR-128 upstream of PHF6 in a pathway vital for cortical lamination as well as for the development of neuronal morphology and intrinsic excitability.	Aging/metabolism;Animals;Cell Movement;Cell Shape;Cerebral Cortex/growth & development/metabolism;Dendrites/metabolism;Epilepsy/genetics;Face/abnormalities;Fingers/abnormalities;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Growth Disorders/genetics;Homeodomain Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Hypogonadism/genetics;Intellectual Disability/ genetics;Mental Retardation, X-Linked/genetics;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neurons/ metabolism/ pathology;Obesity/genetics;RNA Precursors/metabolism;Stem Cell Niche;Time Factors;Transcription, Genetic;Borjeson-Forssman-Lehmann syndrome;cell biology;cortical development;developmental biology;developmental timing;mouse;post-translational gene regulation;stem cells
MicroRNAs miR-155 and miR-16 Decrease AID and E47 in B Cells from Elderly Individuals	D. Frasca, et al.	2015	26223652	Our research in the past few years has identified B cell-specific biomarkers able to predict optimal Ab responses in both young and elderly individuals. These biomarkers are activation-induced cytidine deaminase (AID), the enzyme of class switch recombination and somatic hypermutation; the transcription factor E47, crucial for AID expression; and the ability to generate optimal memory B cells. Moreover, we have found that the increased proinflammatory status of the elderly, both in sera and intrinsic to B cells, negatively impacts B cell function. We have now investigated whether particular inflammatory microRNAs (miRs) contribute to decreased E47 and AID in aged B cells. Our data indicate that E47 and AID mRNA stability is lower in stimulated B cells from elderly individuals. We measured the expression of two miRs crucial for class switch recombination, miR-155 and miR-16, in human unstimulated B cells from young and elderly individuals with the rationale that increases in these before stimulation would decrease E47/AID upon cell activation. We found these miRs and B cell-intrinsic inflammation upregulated in aged unstimulated B cells and negatively associated with AID in the same B cells after stimulation with CpG. We propose that the downregulation of AID in aged human B cells may occur through binding of miR-155 to the 3'-untranslated regions of AID mRNA and/or binding of miR-16 to the 3'-untranslated regions of E47 mRNA, as well as at the transcriptional level of less E47 for AID. Our results indicate novel molecular pathways leading to reduced B cell function with aging.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Adult;Age Factors;Aged;B-Lymphocytes/ metabolism;Cells, Cultured;Cytidine Deaminase/ genetics/metabolism;Down-Regulation;Female;Flow Cytometry;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Transcription Factor 3/ genetics/metabolism;Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha/metabolism
A multi-view genomic data simulator	M. Fratello, et al.	2015	25962835	BACKGROUND: OMICs technologies allow to assay the state of a large number of different features (e.g., mRNA expression, miRNA expression, copy number variation, DNA methylation, etc.) from the same samples. The objective of these experiments is usually to find a reduced set of significant features, which can be used to differentiate the conditions assayed. In terms of development of novel feature selection computational methods, this task is challenging for the lack of fully annotated biological datasets to be used for benchmarking. A possible way to tackle this problem is generating appropriate synthetic datasets, whose composition and behaviour are fully controlled and known a priori. RESULTS: Here we propose a novel method centred on the generation of networks of interactions among different biological molecules, especially involved in regulating gene expression. Synthetic datasets are obtained from ordinary differential equations based models with known parameters. Our results show that the generated datasets are well mimicking the behaviour of real data, for popular data analysis methods are able to selectively identify existing interactions. CONCLUSIONS: The proposed method can be used in conjunction to real biological datasets in the assessment of data mining techniques. The main strength of this method consists in the full control on the simulated data while retaining coherence with the real biological processes. The R package MVBioDataSim is freely available to the scientific community at http://neuronelab.unisa.it/?p=1722.	Algorithms;Computational Biology/ methods;Computer Simulation;DNA Copy Number Variations;DNA Methylation;Datasets as Topic;Gene Expression Profiling/ methods;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Regulatory Networks;Genomics/ methods;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics
miRNA and Dicer in the mammalian lens: expression of brain-specific miRNAs in the lens	P. H. Frederikse, et al.	2006	16397794	Micro RNAs (miRNAs) are approximately 22 nucleotide molecules that regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally and govern a wide range of physiological and developmental processes. Evidence now indicates that miRNAs can also coordinately down-regulate transcript levels for very large groups of genes in a tissue-specific manner, in addition to their ability to suppress protein translation. Here, we examine expression of specific miRNAs and Dicer ribonuclease that is required for miRNA biogenesis in mouse and rat lenses. Northern blot analysis demonstrated lens expression of brain-specific miR-124 and miR-7 in lenses, as well as miR-125b and let-7a. In addition, we provide evidence that muscle specific miR-1 is not present in lens. We detected Dicer transcripts in 21 day, 6 week, and 1 year mouse lenses and 15 day rat lens, and detected Dicer protein in adult lens protein samples. Immunohistochemical examination of late embryonic, post-natal, and adult rat lens sections identified expression of Dicer in differentiating fiber cells that undergo pronounced cell elongation in the lens interior and anterior epithelial cells. The present study provides evidence that miRNAs, which include brain-specific forms, and Dicer are expressed in mammalian lenses, indicating that fundamental aspects of miRNA biology are utilized by the lens during late embryonic and post-natal development and in adult lenses.	Aging/metabolism;Animals;Animals, Newborn;Autoradiography;Blotting, Northern;Brain Chemistry/ genetics;Cell Differentiation/genetics/physiology;Cell Proliferation;Female;Fluorescent Antibody Technique;Immunohistochemistry;Lens, Crystalline/embryology/ metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Pregnancy;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Ribonuclease III/ biosynthesis
Analysis of microRNA and Gene Expression Profiles in Multiple Sclerosis: Integrating Interaction Data to Uncover Regulatory Mechanisms	S. Freiesleben, et al.	2016	27694855	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been reported to contribute to the pathophysiology of multiple sclerosis (MS), an inflammatory disorder of the central nervous system. Here, we propose a new consensus-based strategy to analyse and integrate miRNA and gene expression data in MS as well as other publically available data to gain a deeper understanding of the role of miRNAs in MS and to overcome the challenges posed by studies with limited patient sample sizes. We processed and analysed microarray datasets, and compared the expression of genes and miRNAs in the blood of MS patients and controls. We then used our consensus and integration approach to construct two molecular networks dysregulated in MS: a miRNA- and a gene-based network. We identified 18 differentially expressed (DE) miRNAs and 128 DE genes that may contribute to the regulatory alterations behind MS. The miRNAs were linked to immunological and neurological pathways, and we exposed let-7b-5p and miR-345-5p as promising blood-derived disease biomarkers in MS. The results suggest that DE miRNAs are more informative than DE genes in uncovering pathways potentially involved in MS. Our findings provide novel insights into the regulatory mechanisms and networks underlying MS.	
Integrated expression profiles of mRNA and miRNA in polarized primary murine microglia	R. W. Freilich, et al.	2013	24244499	Neuroinflammation contributes to many neurologic disorders including Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, and stroke. Microglia is brain resident myeloid cells and have emerged as a key driver of the neuroinflammatory responses. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) provide a novel layer of gene regulation and play a critical role in regulating the inflammatory response of peripheral macrophages. However, little is known about the miRNA in inflammatory activation of microglia. To elucidate the role that miRNAs have on microglial phenotypes under classical (M1) or alternative (M2) activation under lipopolysaccharide ('M1'-skewing) and interleukin-4 ('M2a'-skewing) stimulation conditions, we performed microarray expression profiling and bioinformatics analysis of both mRNA and miRNA using primary cultured murine microglia. miR-689, miR-124, and miR-155 were the most strongly associated miRNAs predicted to mediate pro-inflammatory pathways and M1-like activation phenotype. miR-155, the most strongly up-regulated miRNA, regulates the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 signaling pathway enabling the late phase response to M1-skewing stimulation. Reduced expression in miR-689 and miR-124 are associated with dis-inhibition of many canonical inflammatory pathways. miR-124, miR-711, miR-145 are the strongly associated miRNAs predicted to mediate anti-inflammatory pathways and M2-like activation phenotype. Reductions in miR-711 and miR-124 may regulate inflammatory signaling pathways and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma pathway. miR-145 potentially regulate peripheral monocyte/macrophage differentiation and faciliate the M2-skewing phenotype. Overall, through combined miRNA and mRNA expression profiling and bioinformatics analysis we have identified six miRNAs and their putative roles in M1 and M2-skewing of microglial activation through different signaling pathways.	Animals;Cluster Analysis;Computational Biology;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;Interleukin-4/pharmacology;Lipopolysaccharides/pharmacology;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Microglia/drug effects/ metabolism;Models, Biological;Phenotype;Pregnancy;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/ genetics;Reproducibility of Results;Transcriptome
Serum microRNAs in sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis	A. Freischmidt, et al.	2015	26142125	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression and specific mircoRNA "fingerprints" are thought to contribute to and/or reflect certain disease conditions. Recently, we identified surprisingly homogeneous signatures of circulating miRNAs in the serum of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients, which were already present in presymptomatic carriers of ALS gene mutations. Here, we characterize circulating miRNAs in the serum of sporadic ALS patients. We show that, in contrast to familial ALS, miRNA signatures of sporadic ALS are highly heterogeneous suggesting a number of different etiologies. Nevertheless, 2 miRNAs, miR-1234-3p and miR-1825, could be identified to be consistently downregulated in sporadic ALS. Bioinformatic analysis revealed miRNA fingerprints resembling those of familial ALS patients and mutation carriers in 61% of sporadic ALS patients, while the remaining subgroup had clearly different miRNA signatures. These data support a higher than expected contribution of genetic factors also to sporadic ALS. Moreover, our results indicate a more heterogeneous molecular etiology of sporadic ALS compared with (mono)genic cases, which should be considered for the development of disease modifying treatments.	Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/ blood/ genetics;Cluster Analysis;Cohort Studies;Computational Biology;Down-Regulation;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/genetics;Microarray Analysis;Mutation;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis;Biomarker;Diagnosis;MicroRNA;Serum
Serum microRNAs in patients with genetic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and pre-manifest mutation carriers	A. Freischmidt, et al.	2014	25193138	Knowledge about the nature of pathomolecular alterations preceding onset of symptoms in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is largely lacking. It could not only pave the way for the discovery of valuable therapeutic targets but might also govern future concepts of pre-manifest disease modifying treatments. MicroRNAs are central regulators of transcriptome plasticity and participate in pathogenic cascades and/or mirror cellular adaptation to insults. We obtained comprehensive expression profiles of microRNAs in the serum of patients with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, asymptomatic mutation carriers and healthy control subjects. We observed a strikingly homogenous microRNA profile in patients with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis that was largely independent from the underlying disease gene. Moreover, we identified 24 significantly downregulated microRNAs in pre-manifest amyotrophic lateral sclerosis mutation carriers up to two decades or more before the estimated time window of disease onset; 91.7% of the downregulated microRNAs in mutation carriers overlapped with the patients with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Bioinformatic analysis revealed a consensus sequence motif present in the vast majority of downregulated microRNAs identified in this study. Our data thus suggest specific common denominators regarding molecular pathogenesis of different amyotrophic lateral sclerosis genes. We describe the earliest pathomolecular alterations in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis mutation carriers known to date, which provide a basis for the discovery of novel therapeutic targets and strongly argue for studies evaluating presymptomatic disease-modifying treatment in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.	Adult;Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/blood/ genetics;Down-Regulation;Heterozygote;Humans;MicroRNAs/blood/ genetics;Microarray Analysis;Mutation/genetics;Prodromal Symptoms;Proteins/genetics;Superoxide Dismutase/genetics;Superoxide Dismutase-1;C9orf72;Sod1;amyotrophic lateral sclerosis;microRNA;mutation carriers
Targeting MYC-Regulated miRNAs to Combat Cancer	A. Frenzel, et al.	2010	21779463	The MYC protein controls many cellular processes, including proliferation, cell cycle progression, cell growth, metabolism, angiogenesis, differentiation, cell adhesion, and motility. This is primarily achieved through transcriptional regulation of large gene networks that ultimately results in activation or repression of target genes. Given its broad regulatory scope, the expression of the MYC gene itself needs to be tightly controlled. Deregulation of MYC expression promotes tumorigenesis and, not surprisingly, MYC is frequently activated in many different human cancers. Furthermore, these tumors become highly dependent on sustained MYC expression, while MYC inactivation results in desirable anticancer effects, such as cell death, differentiation, and/or senescence. Thus, MYC has emerged as an attractive target for cancer therapy. In addition to regulating protein-coding genes, MYC also governs the expression of microRNAs, many of which have important regulatory roles in cancer development and progression. Here we will discuss how MYC-regulated miRNAs could be exploited for therapeutic development for cancer.	Myc;cancer;differentiation;microRNA;targeted therapy
Myogenic Progenitor Cells Control Extracellular Matrix Production by Fibroblasts during Skeletal Muscle Hypertrophy	C. S. Fry, et al.	2017	27840022	Satellite cells, the predominant stem cell population in adult skeletal muscle, are activated in response to hypertrophic stimuli and give rise to myogenic progenitor cells (MPCs) within the extracellular matrix (ECM) that surrounds myofibers. This ECM is composed largely of collagens secreted by interstitial fibrogenic cells, which influence satellite cell activity and muscle repair during hypertrophy and aging. Here we show that MPCs interact with interstitial fibrogenic cells to ensure proper ECM deposition and optimal muscle remodeling in response to hypertrophic stimuli. MPC-dependent ECM remodeling during the first week of a growth stimulus is sufficient to ensure long-term myofiber hypertrophy. MPCs secrete exosomes containing miR-206, which represses Rrbp1, a master regulator of collagen biosynthesis, in fibrogenic cells to prevent excessive ECM deposition. These findings provide insights into how skeletal stem and progenitor cells interact with other cell types to actively regulate their extracellular environments for tissue maintenance and adaptation.	Pax7;collagen;exosomes;extracellular matrix;fibrosis;hypertrophy;microRNA;muscle;muscle progenitor cells;satellite cells
The Potential Regulatory Mechanisms of miR-196a in Huntington's Disease through Bioinformatic Analyses	M. H. Fu, et al.	2015	26376480	High throughput screening is a powerful tool to identify the potential candidate molecules involved during disease progression. However, analysis of complicated data is one of the most challenging steps on the way to obtaining useful results from this approach. Previously, we showed that a specific miRNA, miR-196a, could ameliorate the pathological phenotypes of Huntington's disease (HD) in different models, and performed high throughput screening by using the striatum of transgenic mice. In this study, we further tried to identify the potential regulatory mechanisms using different bioinformatic tools, including Database for Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery (DAVID), Molecular Signatures Database (MSigDB), TargetScan and MetaCore. The results showed that miR-196a dominantly altered "ABC transporters", "RIG-I-like receptor signaling pathway", immune system", "adaptive immune system","tissue remodeling and wound repair" and "cytoskeleton remodeling". In addition, miR-196a also changed the expression of several well-defined pathways of HD, such as apoptosis and cell adhesion. Since these analyses showed the regulatory pathways are highly related to the modification of the cytoskeleton, we further confirmed that miR-196a could enhance the neurite outgrowth in neuroblastoma cells, suggesting miR-196a might provide beneficial functions through the alteration of cytoskeleton structures. Since impairment of the cytoskeleton has been reported in several neuronal diseases, this study will provide not only the potential working mechanisms of miR-196a but also insights for therapeutic strategies for use with different neuronal diseases.	Animals;Biomarkers/metabolism;Computational Biology/ methods;Corpus Striatum/cytology/ metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Huntington Disease/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neurites/metabolism;Neuroblastoma/ genetics/pathology;Phenotype
Towards a better monitoring of seed ageing under ex situ seed conservation	Y. B. Fu, et al.	2015	27293711	Long-term conservation of 7.4 million ex situ seed accessions held in agricultural genebanks and botanic gardens worldwide is a challenging mission for human food security and ecosystem services. Recent advances in seed biology and genomics may have opened new opportunities for effective management of seed germplasm under long-term storage. Here, we review the current development of tools for assessing seed ageing and research advances in seed biology and genomics, with a focus on exploring their potential as better tools for monitoring of seed ageing. Seed ageing is found to be associated with the changes reflected in reactive oxygen species and mitochondria-triggered programmed cell deaths, expression of antioxidative genes and DNA and protein repair genes, chromosome telomere lengths, epigenetic regulation of related genes (microRNA and methylation) and altered organelle and nuclear genomes. Among these changes, the signals from mitochondrial and nuclear genomes may show the most promise for use in the development of tools to predict seed ageing. Non-destructive and non-invasive analyses of stored seeds through calorimetry or imaging techniques are also promising. It is clear that research into developing advanced tools for monitoring seed ageing to supplement traditional germination tests will be fruitful for effective conservation of ex situ seed germplasm.	Ex situ conservation;seed ageing;seed storage;viability biomarkers;viability prediction
miR-27 negatively regulates pluripotency-associated genes in human embryonal carcinoma cells	H. Fuchs, et al.	2014	25369332	Human embryonic stem cells and human embryonal carcinoma cells have been studied extensively with respect to the transcription factors (OCT4, SOX2 and NANOG), epigenetic modulators and associated signalling pathways that either promote self-renewal or induce differentiation in these cells. The ACTIVIN/NODAL axis (SMAD2/3) of the TGFss signalling pathway coupled with FGF signalling maintains self-renewal in these cells, whilst the BMP (SMAD1,5,8) axis promotes differentiation. Here we show that miR-27, a somatic-enriched miRNA, is activated upon RNAi-mediated suppression of OCT4 function in human embryonic stem cells. We further demonstrate that miR-27 negatively regulates the expression of the pluripotency-associated ACTIVIN/NODAL axis (SMAD2/3) of the TGFss signalling pathway by targeting ACVR2A, TGFssR1 and SMAD2. Additionally, we have identified a number of pluripotency-associated genes such as NANOG, LIN28, POLR3G and NR5A2 as novel miR-27 targets. Transcriptome analysis revealed that miR-27 over-expression in human embryonal carcinoma cells leads indeed to a significant up-regulation of genes involved in developmental pathways such as TGFss- and WNT-signalling.	Activin Receptors, Type II/genetics;Cell Differentiation;Cell Line;Embryonal Carcinoma Stem Cells/ cytology/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;HEK293 Cells;Hepatocytes/cytology/metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Octamer Transcription Factor-3/genetics;Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases/genetics;RNA Interference;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics;Receptors, Transforming Growth Factor beta/genetics;Signal Transduction;Smad2 Protein/genetics;Up-Regulation
Simulated Microgravity Exerts an Age-Dependent Effect on the Differentiation of Cardiovascular Progenitors Isolated from the Human Heart	T. I. Fuentes, et al.	2015	26161778	Microgravity has a profound effect on cardiovascular function, however, little is known about the impact of microgravity on progenitors that reside within the heart. We investigated the effect of simulated microgravity exposure on progenitors isolated from the neonatal and adult human heart by quantifying changes in functional parameters, gene expression and protein levels after 6-7 days of 2D clinorotation. Utilization of neonatal and adult cardiovascular progenitors in ground-based studies has provided novel insight into how microgravity may affect cells differently depending on age. Simulated microgravity exposure did not impact AKT or ERK phosphorylation levels and did not influence cell migration, but elevated transcripts for paracrine factors were identified in neonatal and adult cardiovascular progenitors. Age-dependent responses surfaced when comparing the impact of microgravity on differentiation. Endothelial cell tube formation was unchanged or increased in progenitors from adults whereas neonatal cardiovascular progenitors showed a decline in tube formation (p<0.05). Von Willebrand Factor, an endothelial differentiation marker, and MLC2v and Troponin T, markers for cardiomyogenic differentiation, were elevated in expression in adult progenitors after simulated microgravity. DNA repair genes and telomerase reverse transcriptase which are highly expressed in early stem cells were increased in expression in neonatal but not adult cardiac progenitors after growth under simulated microgravity conditions. Neonatal cardiac progenitors demonstrated higher levels of MESP1, OCT4, and brachyury, markers for early stem cells. MicroRNA profiling was used to further investigate the impact of simulated microgravity on cardiovascular progenitors. Fifteen microRNAs were significantly altered in expression, including microRNAs-99a and 100 (which play a critical role in cell dedifferentiation). These microRNAs were unchanged in adult cardiac progenitors. The effect of exposure to simulated microgravity in cardiovascular progenitors is age-dependent. Adult cardiac progenitors showed elevated expression of markers for endothelial and cardiomyogenic differentiation whereas neonatal progenitors acquired characteristics of dedifferentiating cells.	Aged;Aging/ physiology;Cell Count;Cell Differentiation/drug effects;Cell Movement/drug effects;Cell Separation/ methods;DNA Repair/genetics;Extracellular Signal-Regulated MAP Kinases/metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;Humans;Infant, Newborn;Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins/pharmacology;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;Myocardium/ cytology;Phosphorylation/drug effects;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Stem Cells/ cytology/drug effects/enzymology;Weightlessness Simulation
Syndecan-1 responsive microRNA-126 and 149 regulate cell proliferation in prostate cancer	T. Fujii, et al.	2015	25462564	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short (19-24 nt), low molecular weight RNAs that play important roles in the regulation of target genes associated with cell proliferation, differentiation, and development, by binding to the 3'-untranslated region of the target mRNAs. In this study, we examined the expression of miRNA-126 (miR-126) and miR-149 in prostate cancer, and investigated the molecular mechanisms by which they affect syndecan-1 in prostate cancer. Functional analysis of miR-126 and miR-149 was conducted in the prostate cancer cell lines, PC3, Du145, and LNCaP. The expression levels of SOX2, NANOG, Oct4, miR-126 and miR-149 were evaluated by quantitative RT-PCR. After silencing syndecan-1, miR-126, and/or miR-149 in the PC3 cells, cell proliferation, senescence, and p21 induction were assessed using the MTS assay, senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-Gal) assay, and immunocytochemistry, respectively. Compared to the Du145 and LNCaP cells, PC3 cells exhibited higher expression of syndecan-1. When syndecan-1 was silenced, the PC3 cells showed reduced expression of miR-126 and miR-149 most effectively. Suppression of miR-126 and/or miR-149 significantly inhibited cell growth via p21 induction and subsequently, induced senescence. The mRNA expression levels of SOX2, NANOG, and Oct4 were significantly increased in response to the silencing of miR-126 and/or miR-149. Our results suggest that miR-126 and miR-149 are associated with the expression of syndecan-1 in prostate cancer cells. These miRNAs promote cell proliferation by suppressing SOX2, NANOG, and Oct4. The regulation of these factors by miR-126 and miR-149 is essential for syndecan-1-mediated development of androgen-refractory prostate cancer.	Cell Aging;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Homeodomain Proteins/metabolism;Humans;Immunohistochemistry;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Nanog Homeobox Protein;Octamer Transcription Factor-3/metabolism;Prostatic Neoplasms/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;SOXB1 Transcription Factors/metabolism;Syndecan-1/ physiology;Transfection;beta-Galactosidase/metabolism;MiR-126;MiR-149;MicroRNA;Prostate cancer;Syndecan-1
microRNA-145 promotes differentiation in human urothelial carcinoma through down-regulation of syndecan-1	T. Fujii, et al.	2015	26514209	BACKGROUND: A new molecular marker of carcinoma in the urinary bladder is needed as a diagnostic tool or as a therapeutic target. Potential markers include microRNAs (miRNAs), which are short, low molecular weight RNAs 19-24 nt long that regulate genes associated with cell proliferation, differentiation, and development in various cancers. In this study, we investigated the molecular mechanisms by which miR-145 promotes survival of urothelial carcinoma cells and differentiation into multiple lineages. We found miR-145 to regulate expression of syndecan-1, a heparin sulfate proteoglycan. METHODS: Cell proliferation in the human urothelial carcinoma cell lines T24 and KU7 was assessed by MTS assay. Cellular senescence and apoptosis were measured by senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-gal) and TUNEL assay, respectively. Quantitative RT-PCR was used to measure mRNA expression of various genes, including syndecan-1, stem cell factors, and markers of differentiation into squamous, glandular, or neuroendocrine cells. RESULTS: Overexpression of miR-145 induced cell senescence, and thus significantly inhibited cell proliferation in T24 and KU7 cells. Syndecan-1 expression diminished, whereas stem cell markers such as SOX2, NANOG, OCT4, and E2F3 increased. miR-145 also up-regulated markers of differentiation into squamous (p63, TP63, and CK5), glandular (MUC-1, MUC-2, and MUC-5 AC), and neuroendocrine cells (NSE and UCHL-1). Finally, expression of miR-145 was down-regulated in high-grade urothelial carcinomas, but not in low-grade tumors. CONCLUSIONS: Results indicate that miR-145 suppresses syndecan-1 and, by this mechanism, up-regulates stem cell factors and induces cell senescence and differentiation. We propose that miR-145 may confer stem cell-like properties on urothelial carcinoma cells and thus facilitate differentiation into multiple cell types.	Biomarkers, Tumor;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Down-Regulation;E2F3 Transcription Factor/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Homeodomain Proteins/genetics;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Nanog Homeobox Protein;Neoplasm Grading;Octamer Transcription Factor-3/genetics;RNA Interference;SOXB1 Transcription Factors/genetics;Syndecan-1/ genetics;Urethral Neoplasms/ genetics/ pathology;Urinary Bladder Neoplasms/genetics/pathology
p53 isoforms Delta133p53 and p53beta are endogenous regulators of replicative cellular senescence	K. Fujita, et al.	2009	19701195	The finite proliferative potential of normal human cells leads to replicative cellular senescence, which is a critical barrier to tumour progression in vivo. We show that the human p53 isoforms Delta133p53 and p53beta function in an endogenous regulatory mechanism for p53-mediated replicative senescence. Induced p53beta and diminished Delta133p53 were associated with replicative senescence, but not oncogene-induced senescence, in normal human fibroblasts. The replicatively senescent fibroblasts also expressed increased levels of miR-34a, a p53-induced microRNA, the antisense inhibition of which delayed the onset of replicative senescence. The siRNA (short interfering RNA)-mediated knockdown of endogenous Delta133p53 induced cellular senescence, which was attributed to the regulation of p21(WAF1) and other p53 transcriptional target genes. In overexpression experiments, whereas p53beta cooperated with full-length p53 to accelerate cellular senescence, Delta133p53 repressed miR-34a expression and extended the cellular replicative lifespan, providing a functional connection of this microRNA to the p53 isoform-mediated regulation of senescence. The senescence-associated signature of p53 isoform expression (that is, elevated p53beta and reduced Delta133p53) was observed in vivo in colon adenomas with senescent phenotypes. The increased Delta133p53 and decreased p53beta isoform expression found in colon carcinoma may signal an escape from the senescence barrier during the progression from adenoma to carcinoma.	Cell Aging;Cell Line, Tumor;Colonic Neoplasms/genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Humans;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Mutation/genetics;Protein Isoforms/genetics/metabolism;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/ metabolism
Effects of miR-34a on cell growth and chemoresistance in prostate cancer PC3 cells	Y. Fujita, et al.	2008	18834855	Tumor suppressor p53 transcriptionally regulates expression of microRNA-34a, which confers translational inhibition and mRNA degradation of genes involved in cell cycle control and apoptosis. In various cancers, miR-34a expression is lost or reduced. Here, we investigated the role of miR-34a in prostate cancer cell lines. MiR-34a expression was markedly reduced in p53-null PC3 cells and p53-mutated DU145 cells compared with LNCaP cells expressing wild-type p53. In PC3 cell, ectopic expression of miR-34a decreased the SIRT1 mRNA and protein levels as well as protein levels of known direct target genes. Reporter assays revealed that miR-34a-induced SIRT1 inhibition occurred at the transcriptional but not post-transcriptional level despite the presence of a potential miR-34a binding site within its 3'-UTR. Ectopic miR-34a expression resulted in cell cycle arrest and growth inhibition and attenuated chemoresistance to anticancer drug camptothecin by inducing apoptosis, suggesting a potential role of miR-34a for the treatment of p53-defective prostate cancer.	3' Untranslated Regions/metabolism;Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic/pharmacology;Binding Sites;Camptothecin/pharmacology;Cell Cycle;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Drug Resistance, Neoplasm/ genetics;Enzyme Inhibitors/pharmacology;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Prostatic Neoplasms/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Sirtuin 1;Sirtuins/ antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/metabolism;Topoisomerase I Inhibitors;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/metabolism
MiR-148a attenuates paclitaxel resistance of hormone-refractory, drug-resistant prostate cancer PC3 cells by regulating MSK1 expression	Y. Fujita, et al.	2010	20406806	MicroRNAs are involved in cancer pathogenesis and act as tumor suppressors or oncogenes. It has been recently reported that miR-148a expression is down-regulated in several types of cancer. The functional roles and target genes of miR-148a in prostate cancer, however, remain unknown. In this report, we showed that miR-148a expression levels were lower in PC3 and DU145 hormone-refractory prostate cancer cells in comparison to PrEC normal human prostate epithelial cells and LNCaP hormone-sensitive prostate cancer cells. Transfection with miR-148a precursor inhibited cell growth, and cell migration and invasion, and increased the sensitivity to anti-cancer drug paclitaxel in PC3 cells. Computer-aided algorithms predicted mitogen- and stress-activated protein kinase, MSK1, as a potential target of miR-148a. Indeed, miR-148a overexpression decreased expression of MSK1. Using luciferase reporter assays, we identified MSK1 as a direct target of miR-148a. Suppression of MSK1 expression by siRNA, however, showed little or no effects on malignant phenotypes of PC3 cells. In PC3PR cells, a paclitaxel-resistant cell line established from PC3 cells, miR-148a inhibited cell growth, and cell migration and invasion, and also attenuated the resistance to paclitaxel. MiR-148a reduced MSK1 expression by directly targeting its 3'-UTR in PC3PR cells. Furthermore, MSK1 knockdown reduced paclitaxel-resistance of PC3PR cells, indicating that miR-148a attenuates paclitaxel-resistance of hormone-refractory, drug-resistant PC3PR cells in part by regulating MSK1 expression. Our findings suggest that miR-148a plays multiple roles as a tumor suppressor and can be a promising therapeutic target for hormone-refractory prostate cancer especially for drug-resistant prostate cancer.	Animals;Base Sequence;Cell Line, Tumor;Drug Resistance, Neoplasm;Epithelial Cells/cytology;Hormones/metabolism;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ chemistry/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Neoplasm Invasiveness;Paclitaxel/ pharmacology;Prostatic Neoplasms/ drug therapy/metabolism;Ribosomal Protein S6 Kinases/metabolism;Ribosomal Protein S6 Kinases, 90-kDa/ metabolism;Sequence Homology, Amino Acid
miR-130a activates apoptotic signaling through activation of caspase-8 in taxane-resistant prostate cancer cells	Y. Fujita, et al.	2015	26074357	BACKGROUND: The acquisition of drug resistance is one of the most malignant phenotypes of cancer and identification of its therapeutic target is a prerequisite for the development of novel therapy. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been implicated in various types of cancer and proposed as potential therapeutic targets for patients. In the present study, we aimed to identify miRNA that could serve as a therapeutic target for taxane-resistant prostate cancer. METHODS: In order to identify miRNAs related to taxane-resistance, miRNA profiling was performed using prostate cancer PC-3 cells and paclitaxel-resistant PC-3 cell lines established from PC-3 cells. Microarray analysis of mRNA expression was also conducted to search for potential target genes of miRNA. Luciferase reporter assay was performed to examine miRNA binding to the 3'-UTR of target genes. The effects of ectopic expression of miRNA on cell growth, tubulin polymerization, drug sensitivity, and apoptotic signaling pathway were investigated in a paclitaxel-resistant PC-3 cell line. RESULTS: The expression of miR-130a was down-regulated in all paclitaxel-resistant cell lines compared with parental PC-3 cells. Based on mRNA microarray analysis and luciferase reporter assay, we identified SLAIN1 as a direct target gene for miR-130a. Transfection of a miR-130a precursor into a paclitaxel-resistant cell line suppressed cell growth and increased the sensitivity to paclitaxel. Lastly, ectopic expression of miR-130a did not affect the polymerized tubulin level, but activated apoptotic signaling through activation of caspase-8. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggested that reduced expression of miR-130a may be involved in the paclitaxel-resistance and that miR-130a could be a therapeutic target for taxane-resistant prostate cancer patients.	Antineoplastic Agents/pharmacology/therapeutic use;Apoptosis/drug effects/ physiology;Bridged-Ring Compounds/ pharmacology/therapeutic use;Caspase 8/ metabolism;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Survival/drug effects/physiology;Enzyme Activation/drug effects/physiology;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Prostatic Neoplasms/drug therapy/ enzymology;Signal Transduction/drug effects/ physiology;Taxoids/ pharmacology/therapeutic use;caspase-8;miR-130a;microRNA;prostate cancer;taxane-resistance
Assessment of plasma miRNAs in congestive heart failure	Y. Fukushima, et al.	2011	21157109	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small RNAs that are 21-25 nucleotides in length. Recently, plasma miRNAs have been reported to be sensitive and specific biomarkers of various tissue injuries and pathological conditions. The goal of this study was to assess plasma miRNA profiles and to identify plasma miRNAs that are differentially expressed in patients with heart failure. METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 33 patients with ischemic heart diseases and 17 asymptomatic controls were recruited. In 10 patients with heart failure, miRNAs were assessed at both NYHA IV and III. miRNA array analyses were found to be not appropriate for plasma miRNA profiling. The plasma concentrations of well-characterized miRNAs (miR-126, 122 and 499) were assessed by a real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction using an artificial small RNA as an internal standard. Plasma concentrations of miR-126 were negatively correlated with age and logBNP. In 10 patients with heart failure, plasma concentrations of miR-126 were up-regulated with improvement of the NYHA class from IV to III. CONCLUSIONS: The plasma concentration of miR-126 was negatively correlated with age and NYHA class, and could be a useful biomarker for heart failure.	Adult;Aged;Aging/blood;Biomarkers;Computer Systems;Endothelial Cells/metabolism;Female;Heart Failure/ blood/genetics;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood;Middle Aged;Myocardial Ischemia/ blood/genetics;Natriuretic Peptide, Brain/blood;Polymerase Chain Reaction;RNA Interference
Epigenetics of cartilage diseases	O. Gabay and K. A. Clouse	2016	26723856	Osteoarticular diseases, such as arthritis or osteoarthritis, are multifactorial diseases with an underlying genetic etiology that are challenging to study. Genome-Wide Association studies (GWAS) have identified several genetic loci associated with these diseases. Epigenetics is a complex mechanism of chromatin and gene modulation through DNA methylation, histone deacetylation or microRNA, which might contribute to the inheritability of disease. Some of these mechanisms have been studied for decades in other diseases or as part of the aging process, where epigenetic changes seem to play an important role. With the implementation of better technological tools, such as the Illumina next generation sequencing, altered methylation of DNA has been linked to articular diseases and these mechanisms have been shown to regulate metalloprotease (MMP) expression and cartilage matrix integrity. Some miRNA have also been identified and more extensively characterized, such as delineation of the role played by miR-140 in chondrogenesis, followed by the discovery of numerous miRNA potentially involved in the epigenetic regulation of osteoarthritic disease. Histone deacetylases have long been linked to aging, particularly with respect to the Sirtuin family with Sirt1 as the major player. Because aging is the major risk factor for osteoarthritis, the involvement of Sirtuins in the etiology of osteoarthritis has been suggested and investigated. All of these fine regulations together shed new light on cartilage disease pathophysiology. We present in this short review an update of the role of these pathways in articular diseases.	Arthritis;Cartilage;DNA methylation;Epigenetics;Histone deacetylases;miRNA
Circulating miRNAs as potential biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease	D. Galimberti, et al.	2014	25024331	Several micro(mi)RNA are deregulated in brain, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and serum/plasma from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The aim of the study was to profile circulating miRNAs in serum as non-invasive biomarkers for AD, correlating them with those identified in CSF, the biological fluid which better reflects biochemical changes occurring during pathological processes in the brain and may provide a robust indicator of AD-related disease pathogenesis thanks to the evidence of low amyloid and high levels of tau and hyperphosphorylated tau. Using a two-step analysis (array and validation through real-time PCR), a down-regulation (mean fold change +/- SEM) of miR-125b (0.415 +/- 0.11 versus 1.381 +/- 0.36, p = 0.009), miR-23a (0.111 +/- 0.03 versus 0.732 +/- 0.14, p < 0.001), and miR-26b (0.414 +/- 0.11 versus 1.353 +/- 0.39, p < 0.01), out of 84 tested, was shown in serum from 22 AD patients compared with 18 non-inflammatory and 8 inflammatory neurological controls (NINDCs and INDCs) and 10 patients with frontotemporal dementia. Significant down-regulation of miR-125b and miR-26b was also confirmed in CSF from AD patients versus NINDCs (miR-125b: 0.089 +/- 0.03 versus 0.230 +/- 0.08, p < 0.001; miR-26b: 0.217 +/- 0.06 versus 1.255 +/- 0.29, p < 0.001, mean fold change +/- SEM, respectively), whereas data were not replicated for miR-23a. In serum, miR-125b had an AUC of 0.82 to distinguish AD from NINDCs (95% CI: 0.65-0.98, p = 0.005). In conclusion, we demonstrated that cell-free miR-125b serum levels are decreased in serum from patients with AD as compared with NINDC and distinguish between AD and NINDCs with an accuracy of 82%.	Aged;Alzheimer Disease/ blood/cerebrospinal fluid;Amyloid beta-Peptides/blood/cerebrospinal fluid;Area Under Curve;Biomarkers/blood/cerebrospinal fluid;Female;Frontotemporal Dementia/blood/cerebrospinal fluid;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/cerebrospinal fluid;Peptide Fragments/blood/cerebrospinal fluid;Phosphorylation;ROC Curve;Sensitivity and Specificity;tau Proteins/blood/cerebrospinal fluid;Alzheimer's disease;biomarker;miRNA;serum
MicroRNA-29a in Adult Muscle Stem Cells Controls Skeletal Muscle Regeneration During Injury and Exercise Downstream of Fibroblast Growth Factor-2	A. Galimov, et al.	2016	26731484	The expansion of myogenic progenitors (MPs) in the adult muscle stem cell niche is critical for the regeneration of skeletal muscle. Activation of quiescent MPs depends on the dismantling of the basement membrane and increased access to growth factors such as fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2). Here, we demonstrate using microRNA (miRNA) profiling in mouse and human myoblasts that the capacity of FGF2 to stimulate myoblast proliferation is mediated by miR-29a. FGF2 induces miR-29a expression and inhibition of miR-29a using pharmacological or genetic deletion decreases myoblast proliferation. Next generation RNA sequencing from miR-29a knockout myoblasts (Pax7(CE/+) ; miR-29a(flox/flox) ) identified members of the basement membrane as the most abundant miR-29a targets. Using gain- and loss-of-function experiments, we confirm that miR-29a coordinately regulates Fbn1, Lamc1, Nid2, Col4a1, Hspg2 and Sparc in myoblasts in vitro and in MPs in vivo. Induction of FGF2 and miR-29a and downregulation of its target genes precedes muscle regeneration during cardiotoxin (CTX)-induced muscle injury. Importantly, MP-specific tamoxifen-induced deletion of miR-29a in adult skeletal muscle decreased the proliferation and formation of newly formed myofibers during both CTX-induced muscle injury and after a single bout of eccentric exercise. Our results identify a novel miRNA-based checkpoint of the basement membrane in the adult muscle stem cell niche. Strategies targeting miR-29a might provide useful clinical approaches to maintain muscle mass in disease states such as ageing that involve aberrant FGF2 signaling.	Animals;Cell Differentiation/ genetics;Fibroblast Growth Factor 2/ biosynthesis/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/genetics;Gene Knockout Techniques;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Muscle Development/genetics;Muscle, Skeletal/cytology/growth & development;Regeneration;Wound Healing/genetics;Basement membrane;Exercise;Fgf2;MicroRNA;Skeletal muscle
[Epigenetic nature of ageing]	V. A. Galitskii	2009	19566030	The idea proposed in this article is that a specific set of microRNAs expressing in stem cells can restore the initial profile of their epigenetic markers through RNAi-directed DNA methylation, and owing to that the pluripotent immortal status of these cells is supported unlimitedly and possibly minimum level of the mobile genomic elements activity is achieved. However, cell differentiation, starting with the earliest stages, must be accompanied with repression of genes of some microRNAs out of the primary set, otherwise these microRNAs would prevent expression of genes participating in the differentiation processes. Eventually, it results in that the cells slowly lose the repressive chromatin markers and this, sooner or later, will cause derepression of silent transposons and other mobile elements. This, accordingly, leads to the increase in DNA damage induced by these elements, and to following activation of cell systems of the DNA repair including mechanisms based on homologous recombination. In our opinion, these mechanisms cause not only DNA repair, but also unauthorized recombination on telomere capping structures, since they are pre-recombination structures. It is also possible that transposases in itself can initiate such recombination. As a result, the T-loops converse into rings and, accordingly, telomeres are shortened for the length of the lost circled DNA. This process can cause quick exhaustion of one or more cell telomeres and, therefore, subsequent senescence, cell cycle arrest and apoptosis of the cells, in which the illegitimate activation of recombination process becomes apparent. Apparently, large quantity of organism cells reaches with age the threshold of illegitimate activation of silent mobile genomic elements; subsequent apoptosis of most of these cells causes ageing as a biological phenomenon.	Animals;Apoptosis;Cell Aging/ genetics;Chromatin/genetics/metabolism;DNA Methylation;DNA Transposable Elements/genetics;Epigenesis, Genetic;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Nuclear Lamina/metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics/metabolism;Recombination, Genetic;Stem Cells/physiology;Telomere/genetics/metabolism
Circulating microRNAs as biomarkers for disease staging in multiple sclerosis	R. Gandhi, et al.	2013	23494648	OBJECTIVE: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are single-stranded, small noncoding RNAs that regulate gene expression. Because they are stable in serum, they are being developed as biomarkers for cancer and other diseases. In multiple sclerosis (MS), miRNAs have been studied in cell populations but not in the circulation. In MS, a major challenge is to develop immune biomarkers to monitor disease. We asked whether circulating miRNAs could be identified in MS and whether they are linked to disease stage and/or disability. METHODS: A total of 368 miRNAs were measured in ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid plasma in 10 relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS) patients, 9 secondary progressive MS (SPMS) patients, and 9 healthy controls (HCs) using miRCURY LNA Universal RT microRNA polymerase chain reaction panels. Nineteen miRNAs from this discovery set were validated using qPCR on an independent set of 50 RRMS patients, 51 SPMS patients, and 32 HCs. RESULTS: We found that circulating miRNAs are differentially expressed in RRMS and SPMS versus HCs and in RRMS versus SPMS. We also found miRNAs to be linked to Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS). hsa-miR-92a-1* was identified in the largest number of comparisons. It was different in RRMS versus SPMS, and RRMS versus HCs, and showed an association with EDSS and disease duration. miR-92 has target genes involved in cell cycle regulation and cell signaling. The let-7 family of miRNAs differentiated SPMS from HCs and RRMS from SPMS. let-7 miRNAs regulate stem cell differentiation and T cell activation, activate Toll-like receptor 7, and are linked to neurodegeneration. hsa-miR-454 differentiated RRMS from SPMS, and hsa-miR-145 differentiated RRMS from HCs and RRMS from SPMS. Interestingly, the same circulating miRNAs (let-7 and miR-92) that were differentially expressed in RRMS versus SPMS also differentiated amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) from RRMS subjects, but were not different between SPMS and ALS, suggesting that similar processes may occur in SPMS and ALS. INTERPRETATION: Our results establish circulating miRNAs as a readily accessible blood biomarker to monitor disease in MS.	Adult;Aged;Biomarkers/blood;Cohort Studies;Disease Progression;Female;Humans;Longitudinal Studies;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood;Middle Aged;Multiple Sclerosis/ blood/ diagnosis;Retrospective Studies
Identification and characterization of microRNAs at different flowering developmental stages in moso bamboo (Phyllostachys edulis) by high-throughput sequencing	J. Gao, et al.	2015	26044981	Researching moso bamboo flowering has been difficult because of its unknown flowering interval and the rarity of florescent samples. To identify microRNAs (miRNAs) and study their expression patterns during the flower developmental process of moso bamboo, small RNAs from non-flowering leaves and four flower developmental periods were sequenced using Illumina technology. In total, 409 known miRNAs and 492 differentially expressed novel miRNAs were identified in moso bamboo. Of the known miRNAs that were differentially expressed between non-flowering and flowering samples, 64 were predicted to have a total of 308 targets. Among the miRNAs, seven known and five novel miRNAs were selected, as were four of their target genes, and their expression profiles were validated using qRT-PCR. The results indicated that the miRNA expression levels were negatively correlated with those of their targets. The research comprehensively revealed that the differentially expressed miRNAs and their targets participated in diverse biological pathways and played significant regulatory roles in moso bamboo flowering. The data provide a significant resource for understanding the molecular mechanisms in moso bamboo flowering and senescence, and serve as the primary foundation for further studies on metabolic regulatory networks that involve miRNAs.	Bambusa/ genetics/ growth & development;Flowers;Genes, Plant;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Flower development;Illumina sequencing;Inflorescence morphogenesis;Moso bamboo;microRNA
Silencing of microRNA-21 in vivo ameliorates autoimmune splenomegaly in lupus mice	B. G. Garchow, et al.	2011	21882343	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been implicated in B cell lineage commitment, regulation of T cell differentiation, TCR signalling, regulation of IFN signalling, and numerous other immunological processes. However, their function in autoimmunity, and specifically in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), remains poorly understood. B6.Sle123 is a spontaneous genetic mouse model of SLE characterized by autoantibody production, lymphosplenomegaly, and glomerulonephritis. We identified several differentially regulated miRNAs in B and T lymphocytes of B6.Sle123 mice. We found that miR-21 expression in lupus B and T cells is up-regulated and that in vivo silencing of miR-21 using a tiny seed-targeting LNA reversed splenomegaly, one of the cardinal manifestations of autoimmunity in B6.Sle123 mice, and de-repressed PDCD4 expression in vivo and in vitro. In addition, treatment with anti-miR-21 altered CD4/CD8 T cell ratios and reduced Fas receptor-expressing lymphocyte populations. Our study shows that tiny LNAs can be used to efficiently antagonize endogenous miRNAs in peripheral lymphocytes in vivo and in primary lymphocytes cultured ex vivo and can alter the course of a spontaneous genetic disease in mice.	Aging/drug effects/pathology;Animals;Antigens, CD95/metabolism;Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins/metabolism;Autoimmune Diseases/ genetics/ immunology;B-Lymphocytes/drug effects/immunology;CD4-CD8 Ratio;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;Gene Silencing/drug effects;Lupus Erythematosus, Systemic/complications/ genetics/immunology;Lymphocyte Subsets/drug effects/immunology;Lymphocytes/drug effects/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Oligonucleotides/pharmacology;RNA-Binding Proteins/metabolism;Splenomegaly/complications/ genetics/ immunology/pathology;Transcription, Genetic/drug effects
Modeling the Dynamic AMD-Associated Chronic Oxidative Stress Changes in Human ESC and iPSC-Derived RPE Cells	T. Y. Garcia, et al.	2015	26595608	PURPOSE: Here we use human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) and human-induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) cells to model chronic oxidative stress in vitro. This model allows us to understand the evolution of chronic stress response in RPE in vivo, as well as to monitor microRNAs changes. Finally, we use this in vitro model to identify a partial agonist of NRF2 that is protective against reactive oxygen species (ROS)-induced cytotoxicity. METHODS: The hESCs and hiPSCs were differentiated toward an RPE fate. Upon maturation, RPE cells were subjected to chronic oxidative stress using Paraquat (PQ). The cells were then analyzed using immunocytochemistry and quantitative RT-PCR to look for changes in gene expression and microRNA changes. Small molecules targeting NRF2 pathways were utilized to look for protection against oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. RESULTS: We show that 160 muM PQ can be used to generate a model of chronic oxidative stress in RPE cells derived from hESCs and hiPSCs. Using this model, we characterize the NRF2 pathway effectors during the early and late stages of chronic oxidative stress and identify microRNAs changes during oxidative stress. We find that hsa-miR144 modulates NRF2 activity during ROS stress. Lastly, we found a small molecule modulator of NRF2 that plays a protective role against oxidative stress-induced RPE apoptosis. CONCLUSIONS: In summary, pluripotent stem cell-derived retinal cells can be used to model retinal diseases in a dish. This can provide an unprecedented opportunity to understand the evolution of disease processes and allow us to identify novel therapeutics.	Adolescent;Apoptosis;Cell Differentiation;Cell Line;Child;Humans;Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells/ metabolism;Macular Degeneration/ metabolism/pathology;Male;Oxidative Stress;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Retinal Pigment Epithelium/ metabolism/pathology
Interdigital tissue remodelling in the embryonic limb involves dynamic regulation of the miRNA profiles	B. Garcia-Riart, et al.	2017	28543398	Next-generation sequencing in combination with quantitative polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed a dynamic miRNA signature in the interdigital mesoderm of the chick embryonic hinlimb in the course of interdigit remodelling. During this period, 612 previously known chicken miRNAs (gga-miRNAs) and 401 non-identified sequences were expressed in the interdigital mesoderm. Thirty-six microRNAs, represented by more than 750 reads per million, displayed differential expression between stages HH29 (6 id) and HH32 (7.5 id), which correspond to the onset and the peak of interdigital cell death. Twenty miRNAs were upregulated by at least 1.5-fold, and sixteen were downregulated by at least 0.5-fold. Upregulated miRNAs included miRNAs with recognized proapoptotic functions in other systems (miR-181 family, miR-451 and miR-148a), miRNAs associated with inflammation and cell senescence (miR-21 and miR-146) and miRNAs able to induce changes in the extracellular matrix (miR-30c). In contrast, miRNAs with known antiapoptotic effects in other systems, such as miR-222 and miR-205, became downregulated. In addition, miR-92, an important positive regulator of cell proliferation, was also downregulated. Together, these findings indicate a role for miRNAs in the control of tissue regression and cell death in a characteristic morphogenetic embryonic process based on massive apoptosis.	Inz;apoptosis;limb development;programmed cell death;senescence
Identification of age- and disease-related alterations in circulating miRNAs in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease	S. Garza-Manero, et al.	2015	25745387	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized clinically by the progressive decline of memory and cognition. Histopathologically, two main hallmarks have been identified in AD: amyloid-beta peptide extracellular neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles formed by posttranslational modified tau protein. A definitive diagnosis can only be achieved after the post mortem verification of the histological mentioned alterations. Therefore, the development of biomarkers that allow an early diagnosis and/or predict disease progression is imperative. The prospect of a blood-based biomarker is possible with the finding of circulating microRNAs (miRNAs), a class of small non-coding RNAs of 22-25 nucleotides length that regulate mRNA translation rate. miRNAs travel through blood and recent studies performed in potential AD cases suggest the possibility of finding pathology-associated differences in circulating miRNA levels that may serve to assist in early diagnosis of the disease. However, these studies analyzed samples at a single time-point, limiting the use of miRNAs as biomarkers in AD progression. In this study we evaluated miRNA levels in plasma samples at different time-points of the evolution of an AD-like pathology in a transgenic mouse model of the disease (3xTg-AD). We performed multiplex qRT-PCR and compared the plasmatic levels of 84 miRNAs previously associated to central nervous system development and disease. No significant differences were detected between WT and transgenic young mice. However, age-related significant changes in miRNA abundance were observed for both WT and transgenic mice, and some of these were specific for the 3xTg-AD. In agreement, variations in the levels of particular miRNAs were identified between WT and transgenic old mice thus suggesting that the age-dependent evolution of the AD-like pathology, rather than the presence and expression of the transgenes, modifies the circulating miRNA levels in the 3xTg-AD mice.	3x-Tg;Alzheimer models;blood-based biomarker;early diagnosis;neurodegenerative diseases;pathological aging;plasma;prognosis
Cause or Effect: Misregulation of microRNA Pathways in Neurodegeneration	E. Gascon and F. B. Gao	2012	22509148	During normal aging or neurodegenerative diseases, neuronal survival and function depend on protein homeostasis, which is regulated by multiple mechanisms, including the microRNA (miRNA) pathway. In different cells types, the absence of Dicer, a key miRNA processing enzyme, leads to neurodegeneration through cell-autonomous and non-cell-autonomous mechanisms. Loss of certain miRNAs also causes neurodegeneration in some model organisms. On the other hand, miRNA expression is misregulated in patients with different neurodegenerative diseases. Thus, the miRNA pathway appears to be essential in the pathogenesis of several age-dependent neurodegenerative conditions; however, our understanding of the underlying mechanism remains rudimentary. The precise causal relationships between specific miRNAs and neurodegeneration in humans need to be further investigated.	Als;Alzheimer's disease;C9orf72;Chmp2b;Ftd;Tdp-43;microRNAs;neurodegeneration
Alterations in microRNA-124 and AMPA receptors contribute to social behavioral deficits in frontotemporal dementia	E. Gascon, et al.	2014	25401692	Neurodegenerative diseases, such as frontotemporal dementia (FTD), are often associated with behavioral deficits, but the underlying anatomical and molecular causes remain poorly understood. Here we show that forebrain-specific expression of FTD-associated mutant CHMP2B in mice causes several age-dependent neurodegenerative phenotypes, including social behavioral impairments. The social deficits were accompanied by a change in AMPA receptor (AMPAR) composition, leading to an imbalance between Ca(2+)-permeable and Ca(2+)-impermeable AMPARs. Expression of most AMPAR subunits was regulated by the brain-enriched microRNA miR-124, whose abundance was markedly decreased in the superficial layers of the cerebral cortex of mice expressing the mutant CHMP2B. We found similar changes in miR-124 and AMPAR levels in the frontal cortex and induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neurons from subjects with behavioral variant FTD. Moreover, ectopic miR-124 expression in the medial prefrontal cortex of mutant mice decreased AMPAR levels and partially rescued behavioral deficits. Knockdown of the AMPAR subunit Gria2 also alleviated social impairments. Our results identify a previously undescribed mechanism involving miR-124 and AMPARs in regulating social behavior in FTD and suggest a potential therapeutic avenue.	Animals;Behavior, Animal;Calcium/metabolism;Cerebral Cortex/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Endosomal Sorting Complexes Required for Transport/ genetics;Frontal Lobe/ metabolism;Frontotemporal Dementia/ genetics/metabolism/psychology;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ genetics;Neurons/ metabolism;Prefrontal Cortex/metabolism;Receptors, AMPA/ metabolism;Social Behavior
Hsa-miR-34b is a plasma-stable microRNA that is elevated in pre-manifest Huntington's disease	P. M. Gaughwin, et al.	2011	21421997	Huntington's disease (HD) is a devastating, neurodegenerative condition, which lacks effective treatment. Normal Huntingtin (HTT) and mutant Huntingtin (mHTT) are expressed in multiple tissues and can alter transcription of microRNAs (miRs). Importantly, miRs are present in a bio-stable form in human peripheral blood plasma and have recently been shown to be useful biomarkers in other diseases. We therefore sought to identify potential miR biomarkers of HD that are present in, and have functional consequences for, neuronal and non-neuronal tissues. In a cell line over-expressing mHTT-Exon-1, miR microarray analysis was used to identify candidate miRs. We then examined their presence and bio-stability in control and HD plasma. We found that miR-34b is significantly elevated in response to mHTT-Exon-1, and its blockade alters the toxicity of mHTT-Exon-1 in vitro. We also show that miR-34b is detectable in plasma from small input volumes and is insensitive to freeze-thaw-induced RNA degradation. Interestingly, miR-34b is significantly elevated in plasma from HD gene carriers prior to symptom onset. This is the first study suggesting that plasma miRs might be used as biomarkers for HD.	Adult;Aged;Biomarkers/blood;Cell Death;Cell Differentiation;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Exons;Female;Humans;Huntington Disease/blood/ genetics;Immunohistochemistry;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/metabolism;Middle Aged;Mutation;Neurons/metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Transfection;Up-Regulation;Young Adult
Dicer inactivation in osteoprogenitor cells compromises fetal survival and bone formation, while excision in differentiated osteoblasts increases bone mass in the adult mouse	T. Gaur, et al.	2010	20079730	MicroRNA attenuation of protein translation has emerged as an important regulator of mesenchymal cell differentiation into the osteoblast lineage. A compelling question is the extent to which miR biogenesis is obligatory for bone formation. Here we show conditional deletion of the Dicer enzyme in osteoprogenitors by Col1a1-Cre compromised fetal survival after E14.5. A mechanism was associated with the post-commitment stage of osteoblastogenesis, demonstrated by impaired ECM mineralization and reduced expression of mature osteoblast markers during differentiation of mesenchymal cells of ex vivo deleted Dicer(c/c). In contrast, in vivo excision of Dicer by Osteocalcin-Cre in mature osteoblasts generated a viable mouse with a perinatal phenotype of delayed bone mineralization which was resolved by 1 month. However, a second phenotype of significantly increased bone mass developed by 2 months, which continued up to 8 months in long bones and vertebrae, but not calvariae. Cortical bone width and trabecular thickness in Dicer(Deltaoc/Deltaoc) was twice that of Dicer(c/c) controls. Normal cell and tissue organization was observed. Expression of osteoblast and osteoclast markers demonstrated increased coupled activity of both cell types. We propose that Dicer generated miRs are essential for two periods of bone formation, to promote osteoblast differentiation before birth, and control bone accrual in the adult.	Animals;Cell Aging;Cell Differentiation;Collagen Type I/genetics/metabolism;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/ genetics/metabolism;Embryo, Mammalian/metabolism;Endoribonucleases/ genetics/metabolism;Genes, Lethal;Mice;Mice, Inbred Strains;Osteoblasts/ metabolism;Osteogenesis/ physiology;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Ribonuclease III;Stem Cells/ cytology/metabolism
Alteration of mRNA and microRNA expression profiles in rat muscular type vasculature in early postnatal development	D. Gaynullina, et al.	2015	26073182	The vascular system is characterized by a high degree of plasticity. In particular, functional and structural remodeling of the arterial system takes place during early postnatal development. However, the mechanisms providing such alterations in the rapidly growing organisms are poorly understood, especially for the peripheral vasculature. To explore this, we performed mRNA- and miRNA microarray analysis on muscular type saphenous arteries of young (10-12 days) and adult (2-3 months) rats. Thirty-eight significant pathways (such as oxidative phosphorylation, MAPK signaling, metabolism, cell cycle, DNA replication and focal adhesion) were obtained on differentially regulated genes during postnatal development. Many differentially regulated genes were determined as target- and miRNA-hubs. We also found 92 miRNAs differentially expressed in arteries of young and adult rats. Several significantly regulated pathways were found on these regulated miRNAs. Interestingly, these biological cascades also contain those significantly enriched pathways that were previously identified based on the differently expressed genes. Our data indicate that the expression of many genes involved in the regulation of pathways that are relevant for different functions in arteries may be under the control of miRNAs and these miRNAs regulate the functional, and structural remodeling occurring in the vascular system during early postnatal development.	Age Factors;Aging/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Animals, Newborn;Computational Biology;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Gene Regulatory Networks;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Microvessels/growth & development/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Annotation;Muscle, Skeletal/blood supply/growth & development/metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;RNA, Messenger/ genetics/metabolism;Rats;Rats, Wistar;Signal Transduction
Upregulation of microRNA-125b-5p is involved in the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis by downregulating SYVN1	F. X. Ge, et al.	2017	28260078	Osteoarthritis (OA) is a degenerative disease characterized by deterioration of articular cartilage. The aim of this study was to identify and characterize the expression of microRNA-125b-5p (miR-125b-5p) in normal and OA synovial cells, and to determine its role in OA pathogenesis. First, the levels of miR-125b-5p and synoviolin 1 (SYVN1) were detected among normal, mild OA and severe OA groups with the use of quantitative PCR. Computational analysis was used to search for the target of the miR-125b-5p, and luciferase reporter assay system was used to validate SYVN1 as the target gene of miR-125b-5p. Then the SYVN1 expression level of cells transfected with miR-125b-5p mimics or inhibitors was estimated using quantitative PCR and western blotting. Finally, MTT assay was employed to estimate the effect of miR-125b-5p on apoptosis. We enrolled 36 participants consisting of 12 normal control, 12 mild OA and 12 severe OA, furthermore, we performed quantitative PCR to detect the levels of miR-125b-5p and SYVN1 among those groups, and found that miR-125b-5p was expressed at highest level in severe OA compared with normal control and mild OA groups, while SYVN1 was expressed at the lowest level in severe OA. Additionally, we identified that SYVN1 is a target of miR-125b-5p by using computational analysis and luciferase assay. Transfection with miR-125b-5p mimic or inhibitor was employed to investigate the effect of miR-125b-5p on expression of SYVN1 in synovial cells, and synovial cell viability and apoptosis, and the results showed that miR-125b-5p mimics significant decreased the expression of SYVN1, a substantially promoted apoptosis of synovial cells, while miR-125b-5p inhibitors remarkably increased the level of SYVN1, and substantially suppressed apoptosis of synovial cells. The data suggested that miR-125b-5p promoted apoptosis of synovial cells through targeting SYVN1 gene, with important implication for validating miR-125b-5p as a potential target for OA therapy.	3' Untranslated Regions;Apoptosis;Cell Proliferation;Cell Survival;Computational Biology;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Osteoarthritis/ genetics/ pathology;Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases/ genetics
Main regulatory pathways, key genes and microRNAs involved in flower formation and development of moso bamboo (Phyllostachys edulis)	W. Ge, et al.	2017	27337661	Moso bamboo is characterized by infrequent sexual reproduction and erratic flowering habit; however, the molecular biology of flower formation and development is not well studied in this species. We studied the molecular regulation mechanisms of moso bamboo development and flowering by selecting three key regulatory pathways: plant-pathogen interaction, plant hormone signal transduction and protein processing in endoplasmic reticulum at different stages of flowering in moso bamboo. We selected PheDof1, PheMADS14 and six microRNAs involved in the three pathways through KEGG pathway and cluster analysis. Subcellular localization, transcriptional activation, Western blotting, in situ hybridization and qRT-PCR were used to further investigate the expression patterns and regulatory roles of pivotal genes at different flower development stages. Differential expression patterns showed that PheDof1, PheMADS14 and six miRNAs may play vital regulatory roles in flower development and floral transition in moso bamboo. Our research paves way for further studies on metabolic regulatory networks and provides insight into the molecular regulation mechanisms of moso bamboo flowering and senescence.	Dof;MADS-box;flower formation and development;microRNA;moso bamboo;regulatory pathway
MicroRNA-137/181c regulates serine palmitoyltransferase and in turn amyloid beta, novel targets in sporadic Alzheimer's disease	H. Geekiyanage and C. Chan	2011	21994399	The contribution of mutations in amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilin (PSEN) to familial Alzheimer's disease (AD) is well established. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms leading to amyloid beta (Abeta) generation in sporadic AD. Increased brain ceramide levels have been associated with sporadic AD, and are a suggested risk factor. Serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT) is the first rate-limiting enzyme in the de novo ceramide synthesis. However, the regulation of SPT is not yet understood. Evidence suggests that it may be posttranscriptionally regulated. Therefore, we investigated the role of miRNAs in the regulation of SPT and amyloid beta (Abeta) generation. We show that SPT is upregulated in a subgroup of sporadic AD patient brains. This is further confirmed in mouse model studies of risk factors associated with AD. We identified that the loss of miR-137, -181c, -9, and 29a/b-1 increases SPT and in turn Abeta levels, and provides a mechanism for the elevated risk of AD associated with age, high-saturated-fat diet, and gender. Finally, these results suggest SPT and the respective miRNAs may be potential therapeutic targets for sporadic AD.	Age Factors;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ metabolism/pathology;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ metabolism;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/genetics;Animals;Animals, Newborn;Astrocytes;Brain/ metabolism;Cells, Cultured;Ceramides/metabolism;Diet, High-Fat;Disease Models, Animal;Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic/physiology;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ physiology;Mutation/genetics;Postmortem Changes;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Serine C-Palmitoyltransferase/genetics/ metabolism;Sex Factors;Sphingomyelins/metabolism;Statistics as Topic;Transfection
Blood serum miRNA: non-invasive biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease	H. Geekiyanage, et al.	2012	22155483	There is an urgent need to identify non-invasive biomarkers for the detection of sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD). We previously studied microRNAs (miRNAs) in AD autopsy brain samples and reported a connection between miR-137, -181c, -9, -29a/b and AD, through the regulation of ceramides. In this study, the potential role of these miRNAs as diagnostic markers for AD was investigated. We identified that these miRNAs were down-regulated in the blood serum of probable AD patients. The levels of these miRNAs were also reduced in the serum of AD risk factor models. Although the ability of these miRNAs to conclusively diagnose for AD is currently unknown, our findings suggest a potential use for circulating miRNAs, along with other markers, as non-invasive and relatively inexpensive biomarkers for the early diagnosis of AD, however, with further research and validation.	Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ blood/diagnosis/ genetics;Animals;Biomarkers/blood;Dietary Fats/adverse effects;Down-Regulation/genetics;Female;Genetic Markers;Humans;Male;Mice;MicroRNAs/ blood/ genetics
Inhibition of serine palmitoyltransferase reduces Abeta and tau hyperphosphorylation in a murine model: a safe therapeutic strategy for Alzheimer's disease	H. Geekiyanage, et al.	2013	23528227	The contribution of the autosomal dominant mutations to the etiology of familial Alzheimer's disease (AD) is well characterized. However, the molecular mechanisms contributing to sporadic AD are less well understood. Increased ceramide levels have been evident in AD patients. We previously reported that increased ceramide levels, regulated by increased serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT), directly mediate amyloid beta (Abeta) levels. Therefore, we inhibited SPT in an AD mouse model (TgCRND8) through subcutaneous administration of L-cylcoserine. The cortical Abeta(4)(2) and hyperphosphorylated tau levels were down-regulated with the inhibition of SPT/ceramide. Positive correlations were observed among cortical SPT, ceramide, and Abeta(4)(2) levels. With no evident toxic effects observed, inhibition of SPT could be a safe therapeutic strategy to ameliorate the AD pathology. We previously observed that miR-137, -181c, -9, and 29a/b post-transcriptionally regulate SPT levels, and the corresponding miRNA levels in the blood sera are potential diagnostic biomarkers for AD. Here, we observe a negative correlation between cortical Abeta(4)(2) and sera Abeta(4)(2), and a positive correlation between cortical miRNA levels and sera miRNA levels suggesting their potential as noninvasive diagnostic biomarkers.	Alzheimer Disease/diagnosis/ drug therapy;Amyloid beta-Peptides/blood/metabolism;Animals;Biomarkers/blood/metabolism;Ceramides/ antagonists & inhibitors/metabolism;Cerebral Cortex/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Down-Regulation;Female;Male;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/blood/metabolism/physiology/therapeutic use;Molecular Targeted Therapy;Peptide Fragments/blood/metabolism;Phosphorylation;Serine C-Palmitoyltransferase/ antagonists & inhibitors/ physiology;tau Proteins/metabolism
Altered miRNA expression in canine retinas during normal development and in models of retinal degeneration	S. Genini, et al.	2014	24581223	BACKGROUND: Although more than 246 loci/genes are associated with inherited retinal diseases, the mechanistic events that link genetic mutations to photoreceptor cell death are poorly understood. miRNAs play a relevant role during retinal development and disease. Thus, as a first step in characterizing miRNA involvement during disease expression and progression, we examined miRNAs expression changes in normal retinal development and in four canine models of retinal degenerative disease. RESULTS: The initial microarray analysis showed that 50 miRNAs were differentially expressed (DE) early (3 vs. 7 wks) in normal retina development, while only 2 were DE between 7 and 16 wks, when the dog retina is fully mature. miRNA expression profiles were similar between dogs affected with xlpra2, an early-onset retinal disease caused by a microdeletion in RPGRORF15, and normal dogs early in development (3 wks) and at the peak of photoreceptor death (7 wks), when only 2 miRNAs were DE. However, the expression varied much more markedly during the chronic cell death stage at 16 wks (118 up-/55 down-regulated miRNAs). Functional analyses indicated that these DE miRNAs are associated with an increased inflammatory response, as well as cell death/survival. qRT-PCR of selected apoptosis-related miRNAs ("apoptomirs") confirmed the microarray results in xlpra2, and extended the analysis to the early-onset retinal diseases rcd1 (PDE6B-mutation) and erd (STK38L-mutation), as well as the slowly progressing prcd (PRCD-mutation). The results showed up-regulation of anti-apoptotic (miR-9, -19a, -20, -21, -29b, -146a, -155, -221) and down-regulation of pro-apoptotic (miR-122, -129) apoptomirs in the early-onset diseases and, with few exceptions, also in the prcd-mutants. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that apoptomirs might be expressed by diseased retinas in an attempt to counteract the degenerative process. The pattern of expression in diseased retinas mirrored the morphology and cell death kinetics previously described for these diseases. This study suggests that common miRNA regulatory mechanisms may be involved in retinal degeneration processes and provides attractive opportunities for the development of novel miRNA-based therapies to delay the progression of the degenerative process.	Age Factors;Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Cluster Analysis;Disease Models, Animal;Disease Progression;Dog Diseases;Dogs;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Mutation;Retina/ metabolism;Retinal Degeneration/ genetics
Effects of drought on the microtranscriptome of field-grown sugarcane plants	A. Gentile, et al.	2013	23129215	Sugarcane (Saccharum spp.) is the most promising crop for renewable energy. Among the diverse stresses that affect plant productivity, drought stress frequently causes losses in sugarcane fields. Although several studies have addressed plant responses to drought using controlled environments, plant responses under field conditions are largely unknown. Recently, microRNA (miRNA)-mediated post-transcriptional regulation has been described as an important and decisive component in vegetal development and stress resistance modulation. The role of miRNAs in sugarcane responses to drought under field conditions is currently not known. Two sugarcane cultivars differing in drought tolerance were grown in the field with and without irrigation (rainfed) for 7 months. By using small RNA deep sequencing, we were able to identify 18 miRNA families comprising 30 mature miRNA sequences. Among these families, we found 13 mature miRNAs that were differentially expressed in drought-stressed plants. Seven miRNAs were differentially expressed in both cultivars. The target genes for many of the differentially expressed mature miRNAs were predicted, and some of them were validated by quantitative reverse transcription PCR. Among the targets, we found transcription factors, transporters, proteins associated with senescence, and proteins involved with flower development. All of these data increase our understanding of the role of miRNAs in the complex regulation of drought stress in field-grown sugarcane, providing valuable tools to develop new sugarcane cultivars tolerant to drought stress.	Base Pairing/genetics;Base Sequence;Computational Biology;Dehydration;Droughts;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Plant;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Plant Leaves/genetics;RNA, Plant/genetics/metabolism;Reproducibility of Results;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Saccharum/ genetics/growth & development/ physiology;Stress, Physiological/genetics;Transcriptome/ genetics
Late Maternal Folate Supplementation Rescues from Methyl Donor Deficiency-Associated Brain Defects by Restoring Let-7 and miR-34 Pathways	A. Geoffroy, et al.	2016	27534418	The micronutrients folate and vitamin B12 are essential for the proper development of the central nervous system, and their deficiency during pregnancy has been associated with a wide range of disorders. They act as methyl donors in the one-carbon metabolism which critically influences epigenetic mechanisms. In order to depict further underlying mechanisms, we investigated the role of let-7 and miR-34, two microRNAs regulated by methylation, on a rat model of maternal deficiency. In several countries, public health policies recommend periconceptional supplementation with folic acid. However, the question about the duration and periodicity of supplementation remains. We therefore tested maternal supply (3 mg/kg/day) during the last third of gestation from embryonic days (E) 13 to 20. Methyl donor deficiency-related developmental disorders at E20, including cerebellar and interhemispheric suture defects and atrophy of selective cerebral layers, were associated with increased brain expression (by 2.5-fold) of let-7a and miR-34a, with subsequent downregulation of their regulatory targets such as Trim71 and Notch signaling partners, respectively. These processes could be reversed by siRNA strategy in differentiating neuroprogenitors lacking folate, with improvement of their morphological characteristics. While folic acid supplementation helped restoring the levels of let-7a and miR-34a and their downstream targets, it led to a reduction of structural and functional defects taking place during the perinatal period. Our data outline the potential role of let-7 and miR-34 and their related signaling pathways in the developmental defects following gestational methyl donor deficiency and support the likely usefulness of late folate supplementation in at risk women.	Belated folate supplementation;Brain development;Epigenetics;Folate;Vitamin B12;microRNAs
AAV-mediated knockdown of peripherin-2 in vivo using miRNA-based hairpins	A. Georgiadis, et al.	2010	20010626	Gene therapy for inherited retinal degeneration in which expression of a mutant allele has a gain-of-function effect on photoreceptor cells is likely to depend on efficient silencing of the mutated allele. Peripherin-2 (Prph2, also known as peripherin/RDS) is an abundantly expressed photoreceptor-specific gene. In humans, gain-of-function mutations in PRPH2 result in both autosomal dominant retinitis pigmentosa and dominant maculopathies. Gene-silencing strategies for these conditions include RNA interference by short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs). Recent evidence suggests that microRNA (miRNA)-based hairpins may offer a safer and more effective alternative. In this study, we used for the first time a virally transferred miRNA-based hairpin to silence Prph2 in the murine retina. The results show that an miRNA-based shRNA can efficiently and specifically silence Prph2 in vivo as early as 3 weeks after AAV2/8-mediated subretinal delivery, leading to a nearly 50% reduction of photoreceptor cells after 5 weeks. We conclude that miRNA-based hairpins can achieve rapid and robust gene silencing after efficient vector-mediated delivery to the retina. The rationale of using an miRNA-based template to improve the silencing efficiency of a hairpin may prove valuable for allele-specific silencing in which the choice for an RNAi target is limited and offers an alternative therapeutic strategy for the treatment of dominant retinopathies.	Animals;Base Pairing;Base Sequence;Blotting, Western;DNA Primers/genetics;Dependovirus;Genetic Therapy/ methods;Immunohistochemistry;Intermediate Filament Proteins/ genetics;Membrane Glycoproteins/ genetics;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Molecular Sequence Data;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ genetics;Peripherins;RNA Interference;Retinal Degeneration/genetics/ therapy;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction
Dysregulation between TRIM63/FBXO32 expression and soleus muscle wasting in diabetic rats: potential role of miR-1-3p, -29a/b-3p, and -133a/b-3p	F. Gerlinger-Romero, et al.	2017	28000044	Diabetes mellitus (DM) induces a variable degree of muscle sarcopenia, which may be related to protein degradation and to the expression of both E3 ubiquitin ligases and some specific microRNAs (miRNAs). The present study investigated the effect of diabetes and acute muscle contraction upon the TRIM63 and FBXO32 expression as well as the potential involvement of some miRNAs. Diabetes was induced by streptozotocin and studied after 30 days. Soleus muscles were harvested, stimulated to contract in vitro for twitch tension analysis (0.5 Hz), 30 min later for tetanic analysis (100 Hz), and 30 min later were frozen. TRIM63 and FBXO32 proteins were quantified by western blotting; Trim63 mRNA, Fbxo32 mRNA, miR-1-3p, miR-29a-3p, miR-29b-3p, miR-133a-3p, and miR-133b-3p were quantified by qPCR. Diabetes induced sarcopenia by decreasing (P < 0.05) muscle weight/tibia length index, maximum tetanic contraction and relaxation rates, and absolute twitch and tetanic forces (P < 0.05). Diabetes decreased (P < 0.05) the Trim63 and Fbxo32 mRNAs (30%) and respective proteins (60%), and increased (P < 0.01) the miR-29b-3p (2.5-fold). In muscle from diabetic rats, acute contractile stimulus increased TRIM63 protein, miR-1-3p, miR-29a-3p, and miR-133a/b-3p, but decreased miR-29b-3p (P < 0.05). Independent of the metabolic condition, after muscle contraction, both TRIM63 and FBXO32 proteins correlated significantly with miR-1-3p, miR-29a/b-3p, and miR-133a/b-3p. All diabetes-induced regulations were reversed by insulin treatment. Concluding, the results depict that muscle wasting in long-term insulinopenic condition may not be accompanied by increased proteolysis, pointing out the protein synthesis as an important modulator of muscle sarcopenia in DM.	Animals;Diabetes Complications/ metabolism/pathology;Diabetes Mellitus, Experimental/ metabolism/pathology;Gene Expression Regulation;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Muscle Proteins/ biosynthesis;Rats;Rats, Wistar;SKP Cullin F-Box Protein Ligases/ biosynthesis;Sarcopenia/ metabolism/pathology;Tripartite Motif Proteins/ biosynthesis;Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases/ biosynthesis;Acute contraction;Atrogene;Sarcopenia;Soleus;Streptozotocin
Genome-wide identification of microRNA-related variants associated with risk of Alzheimer's disease	M. Ghanbari, et al.	2016	27328823	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) serve as key post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression. Genetic variation in miRNAs and miRNA-binding sites may affect miRNA function and contribute to disease risk. Here, we investigated the extent to which variants within miRNA-related sequences could constitute a part of the functional variants involved in developing Alzheimer's disease (AD), using the largest available genome-wide association study of AD. First, among 237 variants in miRNAs, we found rs2291418 in the miR-1229 precursor to be significantly associated with AD (p-value = 6.8 x 10(-5), OR = 1.2). Our in-silico analysis and in-vitro miRNA expression experiments demonstrated that the variant's mutant allele enhances the production of miR-1229-3p. Next, we found miR-1229-3p target genes that are associated with AD and might mediate the miRNA function. We demonstrated that miR-1229-3p directly controls the expression of its top AD-associated target gene (SORL1) using luciferase reporter assays. Additionally, we showed that miR-1229-3p and SORL1 are both expressed in the human brain. Second, among 42,855 variants in miRNA-binding sites, we identified 10 variants (in the 3' UTR of 9 genes) that are significantly associated with AD, including rs6857 that increases the miR-320e-mediated regulation of PVRL2. Collectively, this study shows that miRNA-related variants are associated with AD and suggests miRNA-dependent regulation of several AD genes.	
Micro RNA-214 contributes to proteasome independent downregulation of beta catenin in Huntington's disease knock-in striatal cell model STHdhQ111/Q111	S. Ghatak and S. Raha	2015	25747711	Role of beta catenin in Huntington's disease (HD) is not clear. Previous studies on HD reported varied levels of beta catenin. In the present study we showed that beta catenin is post transcriptionally down-regulated in mutant huntingtin knock-in cell model STHdhQ111/Q111. This in turn leads to decreased level of wnt/beta catenin responsive genes. We observed that Gsk3beta or Gsk3beta (phospho Ser 9) is unaltered in HD and this down-regulation of beta catenin is independent of proteasomal degradation. Finally, we showed that the overexpression of miR-214 leads to the down-regulation of beta catenin at protein level only and reduces its transcriptional activity. We concluded that, miR-214 contributes to the processes that result in proteasome independent post transcriptional down-regulation of beta catenin in STHdhQ111/Q111, probably through inhibition of protein synthesis from beta catenin mRNA.	Animals;Cell Line;Corpus Striatum/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Down-Regulation;Gene Knock-In Techniques;Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3/metabolism;Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3 beta;Humans;Huntingtin Protein;Huntington Disease/ genetics/ metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Mutant Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ genetics/ metabolism;Nuclear Proteins/ genetics/ metabolism;Proteasome Endopeptidase Complex/metabolism;Proteolysis;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/metabolism;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Wnt Signaling Pathway;beta Catenin/ genetics/ metabolism;Beta catenin;Huntington's disease;Micro RNA-214;STHdhQ111/Q111;Wnt/beta catenin signaling
STAT5 reactivation by catechin modulates H2O 2-induced apoptosis through miR-182/FOXO1 pathway in SK-N-MC cells	A. Gheysarzadeh and R. Yazdanparast	2015	25231457	It has been suggested that oxidative stress-induced apoptosis is a major contributing factor in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. However, the molecular mechanism of the oxidative stress-associated apoptosis is far to be elucidated. Herein, we investigated whether STAT5, which is involved in many signaling pathways, is affected by oxidative stress. Previously, it has been shown that STAT5 is a direct activator of miR-182 which is in turn a robust inhibitor of FOXO1. Our results showed that oxidative stress inactivated STAT5 may be in a JAK2-independent manner. Thus, under oxidative stress and miR-182 down-regulation, FOXO1 has the opportunity to be translated leading to FOXO1 over-expression. Finally, pro-apoptotic gene targets of FOXO1 e.g., Bim and Bax are up-regulated leading to apoptosis. To further confirm such events, we also demonstrated that Catechin, a well-known natural antioxidant, partially restored both the STAT5 activation and miR-182 expression resulting in cell survival. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study demonstrating that STAT5/miRNA-182 negatively regulates FOXO1 in response to oxidative stress.	Antioxidants/ pharmacology;Apoptosis/ drug effects;Catechin/ pharmacology;Cell Line, Tumor;Forkhead Box Protein O1;Forkhead Transcription Factors/genetics/ metabolism;Humans;Hydrogen Peroxide/toxicity;Janus Kinase 2/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Oxidative Stress;STAT5 Transcription Factor/genetics/ metabolism
Regulation of miR-146a by RelA/NFkB and p53 in STHdh(Q111)/Hdh(Q111) cells, a cell model of Huntington's disease	J. Ghose, et al.	2011	21887328	Huntington's disease (HD) is caused by the expansion of N-terminal polymorphic poly Q stretch of the protein huntingtin (HTT). Deregulated microRNAs and loss of function of transcription factors recruited to mutant HTT aggregates could cause characteristic transcriptional deregulation associated with HD. We observed earlier that expressions of miR-125b, miR-146a and miR-150 are decreased in STHdh(Q111)/Hdh(Q111) cells, a model for HD in comparison to those of wild type STHdh(Q7)/Hdh(Q7) cells. In the present manuscript, we show by luciferase reporter assays and real time PCR that decreased miR-146a expression in STHdh(Q111)/Hdh(Q111) cells is due to decreased expression and activity of p65 subunit of NFkB (RelA/NFkB). By reporter luciferase assay, RT-PCR and western blot analysis, we also show that both miR-150 and miR-125b target p53. This partially explains the up regulation of p53 observed in HD. Elevated p53 interacts with RelA/NFkB, reduces its expression and activity and decreases the expression of miR-146a, while knocking down p53 increases RelA/NFkB and miR-146a expressions. We also demonstrate that expression of p53 is increased and levels of RelA/NFkB, miR-146a, miR-150 and miR-125b are decreased in striatum of R6/2 mice, a mouse model of HD and in cell models of HD. In a cell model, this effect could be reversed by exogenous expression of chaperone like proteins HYPK and Hsp70. We conclude that (i) miR-125b and miR-150 target p53, which in turn regulates RelA/NFkB and miR-146a expressions; (ii) reduced miR-125b and miR-150 expressions, increased p53 level and decreased RelA/NFkB and miR-146a expressions originate from mutant HTT (iii) p53 directly or indirectly regulates the expression of miR-146a. Our observation of interplay between transcription factors and miRNAs using HD cell model provides an important platform upon which further work is to be done to establish if such regulation plays any role in HD pathogenesis.	Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Huntingtin Protein;Huntington Disease/genetics/pathology;MicroRNAs/ genetics;NF-kappa B/ genetics;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics;Nuclear Proteins/genetics;Transcription Factor RelA/ genetics;Tumor Cells, Cultured;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ genetics
beta-Amyloid triggers aberrant over-scaling of homeostatic synaptic plasticity	J. Gilbert, et al.	2016	27955702	The over-production of beta-amyloid (Abeta) has been strongly correlated to neuronal dysfunction and altered synaptic plasticity in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Accordingly, it has been proposed that disrupted synaptic transmission and neuronal network instability underlie memory failure that is evident in the early phases of AD. Homeostatic synaptic plasticity (HSP) serves to restrain neuronal activity within a physiological range. Therefore a disruption of this mechanism may lead to destabilization in synaptic and neural circuit function. Here, we report that during HSP by neuronal activity deprivation, application of Abeta results in an aberrant over-response of the up-regulation of AMPA receptor (AMPAR)-mediated synaptic currents and cell-surface AMPAR expression. In the visual cortex, in vivo HSP induced by visual deprivation shows a similar over-response following an Abeta local injection. Abeta increases the expression of GluA2-lacking, calcium permeable AMPARs (CP-AMPARs), which are required for the initiation, but not maintenance of HSP. Both GluA2-lacking and GluA2-containing AMPARs contribute to the Abeta-mediated over-scaling of HSP. We also find that Abeta induces the dissociation of HDAC1 from the miR124 transcription factor EVI1, leading to an up-regulation of miR124 expression and increased amount of CP-AMPARs. Thus, via aberrant stimulation of miR124 expression and biogenesis of CP-AMPARs, Abeta is able to induce an over response in HSP. This Abeta-mediated dysregulation in homeostatic plasticity may play an important role in the pathogenesis of altered neural function and memory deficits in the early stages of AD.	Amyloid beta;Calcium permeable AMPA receptor;Homeostatic synaptic plasticity;Microrna 124
MicroRNA and proteome expression profiling in early-symptomatic alpha-synuclein(A30P)-transgenic mice	F. Gillardon, et al.	2008	21136867	The alpha-synuclein has been implicated in the pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD), because mutations in the alpha-synuclein gene cause autosomal-dominant hereditary PD and fibrillary aggregates of alpha-synuclein are the major component of Lewy bodies. Since presynaptic accumulation of alpha-synuclein aggregates may trigger synaptic dysfunction and degeneration, we have analyzed alterations in synaptosomal proteins in early symptomatic alpha-synuclein(A30P)-transgenic mice by two-dimensional differential gel electrophoresis. Moreover, we carried out microRNA expression profiling using microfluidic chips, as microRNA have recently been shown to regulate synaptic plasticity in rodents and to modulate polyglutamine-induced protein aggregation and neurodegeneration in flies. Differentially expressed proteins in alpha-synuclein(A30P)-transgenic mice point to alterations in mitochondrial function, actin dynamics, iron transport, and vesicle exocytosis, thus partially resembling findings in PD patients. Oxygen consumption of isolated brain mitochondria, however, was not reduced in mutant mice. Levels of several microRNA (miR-10a, -10b, -212, -132, -495) were significantly altered. One of them (miR-132) has been reported to be highly inducible by growth factors and to be a key regulator of neurite outgrowth. Moreover, miR-132-recognition sequences were detected in the mRNA transcripts of two differentially expressed proteins. MicroRNA may thus represent novel biomarkers for neuronal malfunction and potential therapeutic targets for human neurodegenerative diseases.	
High-throughput microRNAome analysis in human germ cell tumours	A. J. Gillis, et al.	2007	17893849	Testicular germ cell tumours (GCTs) of adolescents and adults can be subdivided into seminomas (referred to as dysgerminomas of the ovary) and non-seminomas, all referred to as type II GCTs. They originate from carcinoma in situ (CIS), being the malignant counterparts of primordial germ cells (PGCs)/gonocytes. The invasive components mimic embryogenesis, including the stem cell component embryonal carcinoma (EC), the somatic lineage teratoma (TE), and the extra-embryonic tissues yolk sac tumour (YST) and choriocarcinoma (CH). The other type is the so-called spermatocytic seminomas (SS, type III GCT), composed of neoplastic primary spermatocytes. We reported previously that the miRNAs hsa-miR 371-373 cluster is involved in overruling cellular senescence induced by oncogenic stress, allowing cells to become malignant. Here we report the first high-throughput screen of 156 microRNAs in a series of type II and III GCTs (n = 69, in duplicate) using a quantitative PCR-based approach. After normalization to allow inter-sample analysis, the technical replicates clustered together, and the previous hsa-miRNA 371-373 cluster finding was confirmed. Unsupervised cluster analysis demonstrated that the cell lines are different from the in vivo samples. The in vivo samples, both normal and malignant, clustered predominantly based on their maturation status. This parallels normal embryogenesis, rather than chromosomal anomalies in the tumours. miRNAs within a single cluster showed a similar expression pattern, implying common regulatory mechanisms. Normal testicular tissue expressed most discriminating miRNAs at a higher level than SE and SS. Moreover, differentiated non-seminomas showed overexpression of discriminating miRNAs. These results support the model that miRNAs are involved in regulating differentiation of stem cells, retained in GCTs.	Carcinoma, Embryonal/genetics/pathology;Cell Line, Tumor;Cluster Analysis;Endodermal Sinus Tumor/genetics/pathology;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Germinoma/genetics/pathology;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ analysis;Neoplasms, Germ Cell and Embryonal/ genetics/pathology;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Ovarian Neoplasms/genetics/pathology;Seminoma/genetics/pathology;Teratoma/genetics/pathology;Testicular Neoplasms/ genetics/pathology
Methods and compositions for amplification and detection of microRNAs (miRNAs) and noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs) using the signature sequence amplification method (SSAM)	S. D. Ginsberg and S. Che	2014	25564022	The signature sequence amplification method (SSAM) described herein is an approach for amplifying noncoding RNA (ncRNA), microRNA (miRNA), and small polynucleotide sequences. A key point of the SSAM technology is the generation of signature sequences. The signature sequences include target sequences (miRNA, ncRNA, and/or any small polynucleotide sequence) flanked by two DNA fragments. Target sequences can be amplified through DNA synthesis, RNA synthesis, or the combination of DNA and RNA synthesis. The amplification of signature sequences provides an efficient and reproducible mechanism to determine the presence or absence of the target miRNAs/ncRNAs, to analyze the quantities of the miRNAs in biological samples, and for miRNA/ncRNA profiling.	Animals;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ analysis/chemistry;Nucleic Acid Amplification Techniques/ methods;RNA, Untranslated/ analysis/chemistry
MicroRNA-9 controls dendritic development by targeting REST	S. A. Giusti, et al.	2014	25406064	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are conserved noncoding RNAs that function as posttranscriptional regulators of gene expression. miR-9 is one of the most abundant miRNAs in the brain. Although the function of miR-9 has been well characterized in neural progenitors, its role in dendritic and synaptic development remains largely unknown. In order to target miR-9 in vivo, we developed a transgenic miRNA sponge mouse line allowing conditional inactivation of the miR-9 family in a spatio-temporal-controlled manner. Using this novel approach, we found that miR-9 controls dendritic growth and synaptic transmission in vivo. Furthermore, we demonstrate that miR-9-mediated downregulation of the transcriptional repressor REST is essential for proper dendritic growth.	Aging/metabolism;Animals;Brain/metabolism;Cells, Cultured;Dendrites/ metabolism;Genes, Reporter;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Integrases/metabolism;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Nestin/metabolism;Neurons/metabolism;Repressor Proteins/ metabolism;Synaptic Transmission;Rest;dendrite development;miR-9;miR-9 reporter;miR-9 sponge;mouse;neuroscience
Identification of intergenic trans-regulatory RNAs containing a disease-linked SNP sequence and targeting cell cycle progression/differentiation pathways in multiple common human disorders	A. B. Glinskii, et al.	2009	19923886	Meta-analysis of genomic coordinates of SNP variations identified in genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of up to 712,253 samples (comprising 221,158 disease cases, 322,862 controls, and 168,233 case/control subjects of obesity GWAS) reveals that 39% of SNPs associated with 22 common human disorders are located within intergenic regions. Chromatin-state maps based on H3K4me3-H3K36me3 signatures show that many intergenic disease-linked SNPs are located within the boundaries of the K4-K36 domains, suggesting that SNP-harboring genomic regions are transcribed. Here we report identification of 13 trans-regulatory RNAs (transRNAs) 100 to 200 nucleotides in length containing intergenic SNP sequences associated with Crohn's disease, rheumatoid arthritis, type 1 diabetes, vitiligo, hypertension and multiple types of epithelial malignancies (prostate, breast, ovarian and colorectal cancers). We demonstrate that NALP1 loci intergenic SNP sequence, rs2670660, is expressed in human cells and may contribute to clinical manifestations of autoimmune and autoimflammatory phenotypes by generating distinct allelic variants of transRNAs. Stable expression of allele-specific sense and anti-sense variants of transRNAs markedly alters cellular behavior, affect cell cycle progression, and interfere with monocyte/macrophage transdifferentiation. On a molecular level, forced expression of allele-specific sense and anti-sense variants of transRNAs asserts allele-specific genome-wide effects on abundance of hundreds microRNAs and mRNAs. Using lentiviral gene transfer, microarray and Q-RT-PCR technologies, we identify rs2670660 allele-specific gene expression signatures (GES) which appear useful for detecting the activated states of innate immunity/inflammasome pathways in approximately 700 clinical samples from 185 control subjects and 350 patients diagnosed with nine common human disorders, including Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, rheumatoid arthritis, Huntington disease, autism, Alzheimer disease, obesity, prostate and breast cancers. Microarray analysis of clinical samples demonstrates that rs2670660 allele-specific GES are engaged in patients' peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) which encounter pathological conditions in coherent tissues of a human body during immune surveillance and homeostasis monitoring. These data indicate that expression of transRNAs encoded by specific intergenic sequences can trigger activation of innate immunity/inflammasome pathways and contribute to clinical development of autoinflammatory and autoimmune syndromes. Documented in this work single-base substitution-driven molecular and biological antagonisms of intergenic SNP-containing transRNAs suggest a guiding mechanism of selection and retention of phenotype-compatible intergenic variations during evolution. According to this model, random genetic variations which generate transRNAs asserting antagonistic phenotype-altering effects compared to ancestral alleles will be selected and retained as SNP variants.	Adaptor Proteins, Signal Transducing/ genetics;Alleles;Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins/ genetics;Autoimmune Diseases/genetics;Base Sequence;Cell Differentiation;Cell Division;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Genome, Human;Humans;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Regulatory Sequences, Ribonucleic Acid/ genetics
SNP-guided microRNA maps (MirMaps) of 16 common human disorders identify a clinically accessible therapy reversing transcriptional aberrations of nuclear import and inflammasome pathways	G. V. Glinsky	2008	19001869	We report the results of a disease phenocode analysis interrogating the relationships between structural features and gene expression patterns of disease-linked SNPs, microRNAs and mRNAs of protein-coding genes in association to phenotypes of 16 major human disorders, which was enabled by multiple independent studies of up to 451,012 combined samples including 194,258 disease cases and 256,754 controls. SNP sequence homology-guided microRNA maps (MirMaps) identify consensus components of a disease phenocode consisting of 81 SNPs and 17 microRNAs. microRNAs of the consensus set are associated with at least 4 common human diseases (range 4 to 7 diseases) and manifest sequence homology/complementarity to at least 4 distinct disease-linked SNPs (range 4 to 14 SNPs). Nearly all microRNAs (15 of 17; 88%) of the consensus set has potential protein-coding mRNA targets among the principal components of the nuclear import pathway (NIP) and/or inflammasome pathways including KPNA1, NLRP1 (NALP1) and NLRP3 (NALP3) genes. Analysis of expression profiling experiments of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) demonstrates statistically significant KPNA1-, NLRP1- and NLRP3-gene expression phenotypes associated with human genotypes of Crohn's disease (CD), Huntington's disease (HD) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) populations. Unexpectedly, microarray analysis of PBMC from patients treated with chloroquine reveals a reversal of disease-linked KPNA1-, NLRP1- and NLRP3-gene expression phenotypes, implying that chloroquine could serve as a readily clinically available drug for targeted correction of identified aberrations. We conclude that genetically-defined malfunctions of the NIP and inflammasome pathways are likely to contribute to pathogenesis of multiple common human disorders and PBMC-based genetic tests may be useful for monitoring the individual's response to therapy. Prescription of chloroquine, an FDA-approved drug which is widely utilized for treatment of malaria, RA and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), may have a therapeutic value in clinical management of a large spectrum of human disorders.	Active Transport, Cell Nucleus/ genetics;Adaptor Proteins, Signal Transducing/genetics;Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins/genetics;Arthritis, Rheumatoid/genetics;Carrier Proteins/genetics;Chloroquine/pharmacology;Crohn Disease/genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Genetic Predisposition to Disease/ genetics;Humans;Huntington Disease/genetics;Inflammation/ genetics;Leukocytes, Mononuclear;MicroRNAs;NLR Family, Pyrin Domain-Containing 3 Protein;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Systems Biology/ methods;alpha Karyopherins/genetics
MicroRNA miR-125b induces senescence in human melanoma cells	M. Glud, et al.	2011	21460750	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNA molecules involved in gene regulation. Aberrant expression of miRNA has been associated with the development or progression of several diseases, including cancer. In a previous study, we found that the expression of miRNA-125b (miR-125b) was two-fold lower in malignant melanoma producing lymph node micrometastases than in nonmetastasizing tumors. To get further insight into the functional role of miR-125b, we assessed whether its overexpression or silencing affects apoptosis, proliferation, or senescence in melanoma cell lines. We showed that overexpression of miR-125b induced typical senescent cell morphology, including increased cytoplasmatic/nucleus ratio and intensive cytoplasmatic beta-galactosidase expression. In contrast, inhibition of miR-125b resulted in 30-35% decreased levels of spontaneous apoptosis. We propose that downregulation of miR-125b in an early cutaneous malignant melanoma can contribute to the increased metastatic capability of this tumor.	Biomarkers, Tumor/biosynthesis/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Down-Regulation;Humans;Melanoma/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/ biosynthesis/metabolism;RNA, Small Untranslated/genetics;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Skin Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Transfection
Inferring microRNA regulation of mRNA with partially ordered samples of paired expression data and exogenous prediction algorithms	B. Godsey, et al.	2012	23284698	MicroRNAs (miRs) are known to play an important role in mRNA regulation, often by binding to complementary sequences in "target" mRNAs. Recently, several methods have been developed by which existing sequence-based target predictions can be combined with miR and mRNA expression data to infer true miR-mRNA targeting relationships. It has been shown that the combination of these two approaches gives more reliable results than either by itself. While a few such algorithms give excellent results, none fully addresses expression data sets with a natural ordering of the samples. If the samples in an experiment can be ordered or partially ordered by their expected similarity to one another, such as for time-series or studies of development processes, stages, or types, (e.g. cell type, disease, growth, aging), there are unique opportunities to infer miR-mRNA interactions that may be specific to the underlying processes, and existing methods do not exploit this. We propose an algorithm which specifically addresses [partially] ordered expression data and takes advantage of sample similarities based on the ordering structure. This is done within a Bayesian framework which specifies posterior distributions and therefore statistical significance for each model parameter and latent variable. We apply our model to a previously published expression data set of paired miR and mRNA arrays in five partially ordered conditions, with biological replicates, related to multiple myeloma, and we show how considering potential orderings can improve the inference of miR-mRNA interactions, as measured by existing knowledge about the involved transcripts.	Algorithms;Bayes Theorem;Computational Biology;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Models, Genetic;Multiple Myeloma/genetics/pathology;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Reproducibility of Results
MicroRNA-148a regulates LDL receptor and ABCA1 expression to control circulating lipoprotein levels	L. Goedeke, et al.	2015	26437365	The hepatic low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) pathway is essential for clearing circulating LDL cholesterol (LDL-C). Whereas the transcriptional regulation of LDLR is well characterized, the post-transcriptional mechanisms that govern LDLR expression are just beginning to emerge. Here we develop a high-throughput genome-wide screening assay to systematically identify microRNAs (miRNAs) that regulate LDLR activity in human hepatic cells. From this screen we identified and characterized miR-148a as a negative regulator of LDLR expression and activity and defined a sterol regulatory element-binding protein 1 (SREBP1)-mediated pathway through which miR-148a regulates LDL-C uptake. In mice, inhibition of miR-148a increased hepatic LDLR expression and decreased plasma LDL-C. Moreover, we found that miR-148a regulates hepatic expression of ATP-binding cassette, subfamily A, member 1 (ABCA1) and circulating high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels in vivo. These studies uncover a role for miR-148a as a key regulator of hepatic LDL-C clearance through direct modulation of LDLR expression and demonstrate the therapeutic potential of inhibiting miR-148a to ameliorate an elevated LDL-C/HDL-C ratio, a prominent risk factor for cardiovascular disease.	ATP Binding Cassette Transporter 1/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Cholesterol, HDL/ metabolism;Cholesterol, LDL/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Hep G2 Cells;Hepatocytes/ metabolism;High-Throughput Screening Assays;Humans;Liver/ metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional;Receptors, LDL/ genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Sterol Regulatory Element Binding Protein 1/genetics/metabolism
miR-27b inhibits LDLR and ABCA1 expression but does not influence plasma and hepatic lipid levels in mice	L. Goedeke, et al.	2015	26520906	RATIONALE: Recently, there has been significant interest in the therapeutic administration of miRNA mimics and inhibitors to treat cardiovascular disease. In particular, miR-27b has emerged as a regulatory hub in cholesterol and lipid metabolism and potential therapeutic target for treating atherosclerosis. Despite this, the impact of miR-27b on lipid levels in vivo remains to be determined. As such, here we set out to further characterize the role of miR-27b in regulating cholesterol metabolism in vitro and to determine the effect of miR-27b overexpression and inhibition on circulating and hepatic lipids in mice. METHODS AND RESULTS: Our results identify miR-27b as an important regulator of LDLR activity in human and mouse hepatic cells through direct targeting of LDLR and LDLRAP1. In addition, we report that modulation of miR-27b expression affects ABCA1 protein levels and cellular cholesterol efflux to ApoA1 in human hepatic Huh7 cells. Overexpression of pre-miR-27b in the livers of wild-type mice using AAV8 vectors increased pre-miR-27b levels 50-fold and reduced hepatic ABCA1 and LDLR expression by 50% and 20%, respectively, without changing circulating and hepatic cholesterol and triglycerides. To determine the effect of endogenous miR-27b on circulating lipids, wild-type mice were fed a Western diet for one month and injected with 5 mg/kg of LNA control or LNA anti-miR-27b oligonucleotides. Following two weeks of treatment, the expression of ABCA1 and LDLR were increased by 10-20% in the liver, demonstrating effective inhibition of miR-27b function. Intriguingly, no differences in circulating and hepatic lipids were observed between treatment groups. CONCLUSIONS: The results presented here provide evidence that short-term modulation of miR-27b expression in wild-type mice regulates hepatic LDLR and ABCA1 expression but does not influence plasma and hepatic lipid levels.	3' Untranslated Regions;ATP Binding Cassette Transporter 1/genetics/ metabolism;Adaptor Proteins, Signal Transducing/genetics/metabolism;Animals;Biomarkers/blood;COS Cells;Cercopithecus aethiops;Cholesterol/ blood;Computational Biology;Databases, Genetic;Diet, High-Fat;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Regulatory Networks;Hep G2 Cells;Humans;Liver/ metabolism;Macaca mulatta;Male;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Receptors, LDL/genetics/ metabolism;Time Factors;Transfection;Triglycerides/blood;Abca1;Atherosclerosis;Ldlr;Lipid homeostasis;miR-27b;miRNAs
Comprehensive microRNA profiling in B-cells of human centenarians by massively parallel sequencing	S. Gombar, et al.	2012	22846614	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression and play a critical role in development, homeostasis, and disease. Despite their demonstrated roles in age-associated pathologies, little is known about the role of miRNAs in human aging and longevity. RESULTS: We employed massively parallel sequencing technology to identify miRNAs expressed in B-cells from Ashkenazi Jewish centenarians, i.e., those living to a hundred and a human model of exceptional longevity, and younger controls without a family history of longevity. With data from 26.7 million reads comprising 9.4 x 108 bp from 3 centenarian and 3 control individuals, we discovered a total of 276 known miRNAs and 8 unknown miRNAs ranging several orders of magnitude in expression levels, a typical characteristics of saturated miRNA-sequencing. A total of 22 miRNAs were found to be significantly upregulated, with only 2 miRNAs downregulated, in centenarians as compared to controls. Gene Ontology analysis of the predicted and validated targets of the 24 differentially expressed miRNAs indicated enrichment of functional pathways involved in cell metabolism, cell cycle, cell signaling, and cell differentiation. A cross sectional expression analysis of the differentially expressed miRNAs in B-cells from Ashkenazi Jewish individuals between the 50th and 100th years of age indicated that expression levels of miR-363* declined significantly with age. Centenarians, however, maintained the youthful expression level. This result suggests that miR-363* may be a candidate longevity-associated miRNA. CONCLUSION: Our comprehensive miRNA data provide a resource for further studies to identify genetic pathways associated with aging and longevity in humans.	Aged, 80 and over;Aging/genetics;B-Lymphocytes/ metabolism;Base Sequence;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Sequence Analysis, RNA
DGCR8-mediated disruption of miRNA biogenesis induces cellular senescence in primary fibroblasts	D. Gomez-Cabello, et al.	2013	23773483	The regulation of gene expression by microRNAs (miRNAs) is critical for normal development and physiology. Conversely, miRNA function is frequently impaired in cancer, and other pathologies, either by aberrant expression of individual miRNAs or dysregulation of miRNA synthesis. Here, we have investigated the impact of global disruption of miRNA biogenesis in primary fibroblasts of human or murine origin, through the knockdown of DGCR8, an essential mediator of the synthesis of canonical miRNAs. We find that the inactivation of DGCR8 in these cells results in a dramatic antiproliferative response, with the acquisition of a senescent phenotype. Senescence triggered by DGCR8 loss is accompanied by the upregulation of the cell-cycle inhibitor p21CIP1. We further show that a subset of senescence-associated miRNAs with the potential to target p21CIP1 is downregulated during DGCR8-mediated senescence. Interestingly, the antiproliferative response to miRNA biogenesis disruption is retained in human tumor cells, irrespective of p53 status. In summary, our results show that defective synthesis of canonical microRNAs results in cell-cycle arrest and cellular senescence in primary fibroblasts mediated by specific miRNAs, and thus identify global miRNA disruption as a novel senescence trigger.	Cell Aging/physiology;Cell Growth Processes/physiology;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/deficiency/genetics;Fibroblasts/cytology/ metabolism;Gene Knockout Techniques;HEK293 Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/ genetics;Proteins/ metabolism;RNA-Binding Proteins;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/deficiency/genetics;Up-Regulation;Dgcr8;fibroblasts;microRNA;p21CIP1;p53;senescence
microRNA biogenesis and senescence	D. Gomez-Cabello, et al.	2013	24142392		Cell Aging;Humans;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Proteins/physiology;RNA-Binding Proteins
Regulation of the microRNA processor DGCR8 by the tumor suppressor ING1	D. Gomez-Cabello, et al.	2010	20179197	The ING family of tumor suppressor proteins controls several cellular functions relevant to antitumor protection, such as cell cycle control, apoptosis, senescence, or migration. ING proteins are functionally linked to the p53 pathway, and they participate in transcriptional control via the recognition of histone marks and recruitment of protein complexes with chromatin-modifying activity to specific promoters. Here, we have investigated the global effect of ING1 in gene regulation through genome-wide analysis of expression profiles in primary embryonic fibroblasts deficient for the Ing1 locus. We find that Ing1 has a predominant role as transcriptional repressor in this setting, affecting the expression of genes involved in a variety of cellular functions. Within the subset of genes showing differential expression, we have identified DGCR8, a protein involved in the early steps of microRNA biogenesis. We show that ING1 binds to the DGCR8 promoter and controls its transcription through chromatin regulation. We also find that ING1 and DGCR8 can cooperate in restraining proliferation. In summary, this study reveals a novel connection between ING1 and a regulator of microRNA biogenesis and identifies new links between tumor suppressor proteins and the microRNA machinery.	Animals;Blotting, Western;Fibroblasts/metabolism/physiology;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Genes, Tumor Suppressor;Humans;Intracellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins/genetics;Mice;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Nuclear Proteins/ biosynthesis/genetics;Proteins/ genetics;RNA-Binding Proteins;Transcription, Genetic;Tumor Suppressor Proteins/ biosynthesis/genetics
Diverse miRNA spatial expression patterns suggest important roles in homeostasis and regeneration in planarians	C. Gonzalez-Estevez, et al.	2009	19247960	miRNAs are an important class of non-protein coding small RNAs whose specific functions in animals are rapidly being elucidated. It is clear that miRNAs can play crucial roles in stem cell maintenance, cell fate determination and differentiation. We use planarians, which possess a large population of pluripotent somatic stem cells, as a powerful model system to study many aspects of stem cell biology and regeneration. In particular we wish to investigate the regulatory role miRNAs may have in planarian stem cell self renewal, proliferation and differentiation. Here, we characterized the differential spatial patterns of expression of miRNAs in whole and regenerating planarians by in situ hybridization to nascent miRNA transcripts. These miRNA expression patterns are the first which have been determined for a Lophotrocozoan animal. We have characterized the expression patterns of 42 miRNAs in adult planarians, constituting a complete range of tissue specific expression patterns. We also followed miRNA expression during planarian regeneration. The majority of planarian miRNAs were expressed either in areas where stem cells (neoblasts) are located and/or in the nervous system. Some miRNAs were definitively expressed in stem cells and dividing cells as confirmed by in situ hybridisation after irradiation. We also found miRNAs to be expressed in germ stem cells of the sexual strain. Together, these data suggest an important role for miRNAs in stem cell regulation and in neural cell differentiation in planarians.	Aging/physiology;Animals;Cell Nucleus Shape/genetics;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/ genetics;Homeostasis/ genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Planarians/ genetics;Regeneration/ genetics;Sexual Maturation;Stem Cells/metabolism;Transcription, Genetic/genetics
Metastasis-suppressor transcript destabilization through TARBP2 binding of mRNA hairpins	H. Goodarzi, et al.	2014	25043050	Aberrant regulation of RNA stability has an important role in many disease states. Deregulated post-transcriptional modulation, such as that governed by microRNAs targeting linear sequence elements in messenger RNAs, has been implicated in the progression of many cancer types. A defining feature of RNA is its ability to fold into structures. However, the roles of structural mRNA elements in cancer progression remain unexplored. Here we performed an unbiased search for post-transcriptional modulators of mRNA stability in breast cancer by conducting whole-genome transcript stability measurements in poorly and highly metastatic isogenic human breast cancer lines. Using a computational framework that searches RNA sequence and structure space, we discovered a family of GC-rich structural cis-regulatory RNA elements, termed sRSEs for structural RNA stability elements, which are significantly overrepresented in transcripts displaying reduced stability in highly metastatic cells. By integrating computational and biochemical approaches, we identified TARBP2, a double-stranded RNA-binding protein implicated in microRNA processing, as the trans factor that binds the sRSE family and similar structural elements--collectively termed TARBP2-binding structural elements (TBSEs)--in transcripts. TARBP2 is overexpressed in metastatic cells and metastatic human breast tumours and destabilizes transcripts containing TBSEs. Endogenous TARBP2 promotes metastatic cell invasion and colonization by destabilizing amyloid precursor protein (APP) and ZNF395 transcripts, two genes previously associated with Alzheimer's and Huntington's disease, respectively. We reveal these genes to be novel metastasis suppressor genes in breast cancer. The cleavage product of APP, extracellular amyloid-alpha peptide, directly suppresses invasion while ZNF395 transcriptionally represses a pro-metastatic gene expression program. The expression levels of TARBP2, APP and ZNF395 in human breast carcinomas support their experimentally uncovered roles in metastasis. Our findings establish a non-canonical and direct role for TARBP2 in mammalian gene expression regulation and reveal that regulated RNA destabilization through protein-mediated binding of mRNA structural elements can govern cancer progression.	Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/metabolism;Breast Neoplasms/pathology;Cell Line, Tumor;DNA-Binding Proteins/metabolism;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Neoplasm Metastasis;Protein Binding;RNA Stability;RNA, Messenger/ metabolism;RNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Transcription Factors/metabolism
Post-Transcriptional Control of the Hypoxic Response by RNA-Binding Proteins and MicroRNAs	M. Gorospe, et al.	2011	21747757	Mammalian gene expression patterns change profoundly in response to low oxygen levels. These changes in gene expression programs are strongly influenced by post-transcriptional mechanisms mediated by mRNA-binding factors: RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) and microRNAs (miRNAs). Here, we review the RBPs and miRNAs that modulate mRNA turnover and translation in response to hypoxic challenge. RBPs such as HuR (human antigen R), PTB (polypyrimidine tract-binding protein), heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs), tristetraprolin, nucleolin, iron-response element-binding proteins (IRPs), and cytoplasmic polyadenylation-element-binding proteins (CPEBs), selectively bind to numerous hypoxia-regulated transcripts and play a major role in establishing hypoxic gene expression patterns. MiRNAs including miR-210, miR-373, and miR-21 associate with hypoxia-regulated transcripts and further modulate the levels of the encoded proteins to implement the hypoxic gene expression profile. We discuss the potent regulation of hypoxic gene expression by RBPs and miRNAs and their integrated actions in the cellular hypoxic response.	RNA-binding proteins;hypoxia;mRNA turnover;microRNAs;post-transcriptional gene regulation;ribonucleoprotein complex;translational control;untranslated regions
SNP Variation in MicroRNA Biogenesis Pathway Genes as a New Innovation Strategy for Alzheimer Disease Diagnostics: A Study of 10 Candidate Genes in an Understudied Population From the Eastern Mediterranean	S. Gorucu Yilmaz, et al.	2016	26796812	Alzheimer disease (AD) is a common complex neurodegenerative disorder accounting for nearly 50% to 70% of dementias worldwide. Yet the current diagnostic options for AD are limited. New diagnostic innovation strategies focusing on novel molecules and pathways are sorely needed. In this connection, microRNAs (miRNAs) are conserved small noncoding RNAs that regulate posttranscriptional gene expression and are vital for neuronal development and its functional sustainability. Conceivably, biological pathways responsible for the biogenesis of miRNAs represent a veritable set of upstream candidate genes that can be potentially associated with the AD pathophysiology. Notably, whereas functional single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in miRNA biogenesis pathway genes have been studied in other complex diseases, surprisingly, virtually no such study has been conducted on their relevance in AD. Moreover, novel diagnostics identified in easily accessible peripheral tissues such as the whole blood samples represent the initial entry or gateway points on the biomarker discovery critical path for AD. To the best of our knowledge, we report here the first association study of functional SNPs, as measured by real-time PCR in 10 "upstream" candidate genes critically situated on the miRNA biogenesis pathway, in a large sample of AD patients (N=172) and healthy controls (N=109) in a hitherto understudied world population from the Mersin region of the Eastern Mediterranean. We observed a significant association between 2 candidate genes and AD, TARBP2 rs784567 genotype and AD (chi=6.292, P=0.043), and a trend for RNASEN rs10719 genotype (chi=4.528, P=0.104) and allele (P=0.035). Functional SNP variations in the other 8 candidate genes (DGCR8, XPO5, RAN, DICER1, AGO1, AGO2, GEMIN3, and GEMIN4) did not associate with AD in our sample. Given the putative biological importance of miRNA biogenesis pathways, these emerging data can provide a new foundation to stimulate future debate and genetic investigations of AD, focusing on new molecular mechanisms such as miRNA biogenesis, particularly in accessible peripheral tissues for novel molecular diagnostics for dementia.	
Interference in plant defense and development by non-structural protein NSs of Groundnut bud necrosis virus	S. Goswami, et al.	2012	21924303	Groundnut bud necrosis virus (GBNV) infects a large number of leguminous and solanaceous plants. To elucidate the biological function of the non-structural protein encoded by the S RNA of GBNV (NSs), we studied its role in RNA silencing suppression and in viral pathogenesis. Our results demonstrated that GBNV NSs functions as a suppressor of RNA silencing using the agroinfiltration patch assay. An in silico analysis suggested the presence of pro-apoptotic protein Reaper-like sequences in the GBNV NSs, which were known to be present in animal infecting bunyaviruses. Utilizing NSs mutants, we demonstrated that a Leu-rich domain was required for RNA silencing suppression activity, but not the non-overlapping Trp/GH3 motif of the Reaper-like sequence. To investigate the role of NSs in symptom development we generated transgenic tomato expressing the GBNV NSs and showed that the expression of NSs in tomato mimics symptoms induced by infection with GBNV, such as leaf senescence and necrosis. As leaf senescence is controlled by miR319 regulation of the transcription factor TCP1, we assessed the accumulation of both RNAs in transgenic NSs-expressing and GBNV-infected tomato plants. In both types of plants the levels of miR319 decreased, while the levels of TCP1 transcripts increased. We propose that GBNV-NSs affects miRNA biogenesis through its RNA silencing suppressor activity and interferes with TCP1-regulated leaf developmental pathways.	Arachis/virology;Gene Silencing;Lycopersicon esculentum/growth & development/immunology/ physiology/ virology;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Mutant Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Plant Leaves/virology;Plant Proteins/antagonists & inhibitors;Plants, Genetically Modified/virology;Tospovirus/ pathogenicity;Transcription Factors/antagonists & inhibitors;Viral Nonstructural Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Virulence Factors/ metabolism
Alzheimer's disease models and functional genomics-How many needles are there in the haystack?	J. Gotz, et al.	2012	22934069	Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) are complex human brain disorders that affect an increasing number of people worldwide. With the identification first of the proteins that aggregate in AD and FTLD brains and subsequently of pathogenic gene mutations that cause their formation in the familial cases, the foundation was laid for the generation of animal models. These recapitulate essential aspects of the human conditions; expression of mutant forms of the amyloid-beta protein-encoding APP gene in mice reproduces amyloid-beta (Abeta) plaque formation in AD, while that of mutant forms of the tau-encoding microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) gene reproduces tau-containing neurofibrillary tangle formation, a lesion that is also prevalent in FTLD-Tau. The mouse models have been complemented by those in lower species such as C. elegans or Drosophila, highlighting the crucial role for Abeta and tau in human neurodegenerative disease. In this review, we will introduce selected AD/FTLD models and discuss how they were instrumental, by identifying deregulated mRNAs, miRNAs and proteins, in dissecting pathogenic mechanisms in neurodegenerative disease. We will discuss some recent examples, which includes miRNA species that are specifically deregulated by Abeta, mitochondrial proteins that are targets of both Abeta and tau, and the nuclear splicing factor SFPQ that accumulates in the cytoplasm in a tau-dependent manner. These examples illustrate how a functional genomics approach followed by a careful validation in experimental models and human tissue leads to a deeper understanding of the pathogenesis of AD and FTLD and ultimately, may help in finding a cure.	Alzheimer's disease;amyloid;frontotemporal dementia;kinase;phosphatase;proteomic;tau;transcriptomic
Circulating microRNAs in Neurodegenerative Diseases	M. Grasso, et al.	2015	26608203	Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), are caused by a combination of events that impair normal neuronal function. Although they are considered different disorders, there are overlapping features among them from the clinical, pathological, and genetic points of view. Synaptic dysfunction and loss, neurite retraction, and the appearance of other abnormalities such as axonal transport defects normally precede the neuronal loss that is a relatively late event. The diagnosis of many neurodegenerative diseases is mainly based on patient's cognitive function analysis, and the development of diagnostic methods is complicated by the brain's capacity to compensate for neuronal loss over a long period of time. This results in the late clinical manifestation of symptoms, a time when successful treatment is no longer feasible. Thus, a noninvasive diagnostic method based on early events detection is particularly important. In the last years, some biomarkers expressed in human body fluids have been proposed. microRNAs (miRNAs), with their high stability, tissue- or cell type-specific expression, lower cost, and shorter time in the assay development, could constitute a good tool to obtain an early disease diagnosis for a wide number of human pathologies, including neurodegenerative diseases. The possibilities and challenges of using these small RNA molecules as a signature for neurodegenerative disorders is a highly promising approach for developing minimally invasive screening tests and to identify new therapeutic targets.	Alzheimer's disease;Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis;Animal models;Circulating miRNAs;Huntington's disease;Neurodegenerative diseases;Parkinson's disease;Prion disease;Spinocerebellar Ataxia
Impact of Dietary Interventions on Noncoding RNA Networks and mRNAs Encoding Chromatin-Related Factors	C. D. Green, et al.	2017	28329687	Dietary interventions dramatically affect metabolic disease and lifespan in various aging models. Here, we profiled liver microRNA (miRNA), coding, and long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) expression by high-throughput deep sequencing in mice across multiple energy intake and expenditure interventions. Strikingly, three dietary intervention network design patterns were uncovered: (1) lifespan-extending interventions largely repressed the expression of miRNAs, lncRNAs, and transposable elements; (2) protein-coding mRNAs with expression positively correlated with long lifespan are highly targeted by miRNAs; and (3) miRNA-targeting interactions mainly target chromatin-related functions. We experimentally validated miR-34a, miR-107, and miR-212-3p targeting of the chromatin remodeler Chd1 and further demonstrate that Chd1 knockdown mimics high-fat diet and aging-induced gene expression changes and activation of transposons. Our findings demonstrate lifespan-extending diets repress miRNA-chromatin remodeler interactions and safeguard against deregulated transcription induced by aging and lifespan shortening diets, events linked by microRNA, chromatin, and ncRNA crosstalk.	Chd1;calorie restriction;chromatin;exercise;high fat;lifespan;lncRNA;microRNA;transposon
Behavioral plasticity in honey bees is associated with differences in brain microRNA transcriptome	J. K. Greenberg, et al.	2012	22409512	Small, non-coding microRNAs (miRNAs) have been implicated in many biological processes, including the development of the nervous system. However, the roles of miRNAs in natural behavioral and neuronal plasticity are not well understood. To help address this we characterized the microRNA transcriptome in the adult worker honey bee head and investigated whether changes in microRNA expression levels in the brain are associated with division of labor among honey bees, a well-established model for socially regulated behavior. We determined that several miRNAs were downregulated in bees that specialize on brood care (nurses) relative to foragers. Additional experiments showed that this downregulation is dependent upon social context; it only occurred when nurse bees were in colonies that also contained foragers. Analyses of conservation patterns of brain-expressed miRNAs across Hymenoptera suggest a role for certain miRNAs in the evolution of the Aculeata, which includes all the eusocial hymenopteran species. Our results support the intriguing hypothesis that miRNAs are important regulators of social behavior at both developmental and evolutionary time scales.	Aging/genetics;Animals;Bees/ genetics/physiology;Behavior, Animal/ physiology;Biological Evolution;Brain Chemistry/ genetics/physiology;Female;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neuronal Plasticity/ genetics;Phylogeny;Transcriptome/ genetics
Identification of microRNA-mRNA functional interactions in UVB-induced senescence of human diploid fibroblasts	R. Greussing, et al.	2013	23557329	BACKGROUND: Cellular senescence can be induced by a variety of extrinsic stimuli, and sustained exposure to sunlight is a key factor in photoaging of the skin. Accordingly, irradiation of skin fibroblasts by UVB light triggers cellular senescence, which is thought to contribute to extrinsic skin aging, although molecular mechanisms are incompletely understood. Here, we addressed molecular mechanisms underlying UVB induced senescence of human diploid fibroblasts. RESULTS: We observed a parallel activation of the p53/p21(WAF1) and p16(INK4a)/pRb pathways. Using genome-wide transcriptome analysis, we identified a transcriptional signature of UVB-induced senescence that was conserved in three independent strains of human diploid fibroblasts (HDF) from skin. In parallel, a comprehensive screen for microRNAs regulated during UVB-induced senescence was performed which identified five microRNAs that are significantly regulated during the process. Bioinformatic analysis of miRNA-mRNA networks was performed to identify new functional mRNA targets with high confidence for miR-15a, miR-20a, miR-20b, miR-93, and miR-101. Already known targets of these miRNAs were identified in each case, validating the approach. Several new targets were identified for all of these miRNAs, with the potential to provide new insight in the process of UVB-induced senescence at a genome-wide level. Subsequent analysis was focused on miR-101 and its putative target gene Ezh2. We confirmed that Ezh2 is regulated by miR-101 in human fibroblasts, and found that both overexpression of miR-101 and downregulation of Ezh2 independently induce senescence in the absence of UVB irradiation. However, the downregulation of miR-101 was not sufficient to block the phenotype of UVB-induced senescence, suggesting that other UVB-induced processes induce the senescence response in a pathway redundant with upregulation of miR-101. CONCLUSION: We performed a comprehensive screen for UVB-regulated microRNAs in human diploid fibroblasts, and identified a network of miRNA-mRNA interactions mediating UVB-induced senescence. In addition, miR-101 and Ezh2 were identified as key players in UVB-induced senescence of HDF.	Cell Aging/ genetics/radiation effects;Cell Line, Tumor;Diploidy;Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2 Protein;Fibroblasts/ metabolism/radiation effects;Gene Regulatory Networks/radiation effects;Humans;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Polycomb Repressive Complex 2/ genetics/metabolism;RNA Interference/radiation effects;RNA, Messenger/ genetics;Transcriptome/radiation effects;Ultraviolet Rays
MicroRNA-182 regulates amygdala-dependent memory formation	E. M. Griggs, et al.	2013	23345246	De novo protein synthesis supports long-lasting functional and structural plasticity and is a molecular requirement for new memory formation. Recent evidence has suggested that microRNAs may be involved in regulating the molecular mechanisms underlying neural plasticity. MicroRNAs are endogenous, noncoding RNAs capable of post-transcriptional repression of their mRNA targets. To explore the potential for microRNA-mediated regulation of amygdala-dependent memory formation, we performed expression profiling of microRNAs in the lateral amygdala of rats 1 h after auditory fear conditioning. Microarray analysis revealed that over half of all known microRNAs are endogenously expressed in the lateral amygdala, with 7 microRNAs upregulated and 32 downregulated by auditory fear training. Bioinformatic analysis identified several of the downregulated microRNAs as potential repressors of actin-regulating proteins known to be involved in plasticity and memory. Downregulation of one of these microRNAs by auditory fear conditioning, miR-182, was confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR. Overexpression of miR-182 within the lateral amygdala resulted in decreased expression of the protein but not mRNA of two synapse-enriched regulators of actin known to modulate structural plasticity, cortactin and Rac1. The overexpression of miR-182 also disrupted long-term but not short-term auditory fear memory. These data indicate that learning-induced suppression of miR-182, a microRNA previously uncharacterized in the brain, supports long-term memory formation in the amygdala and suggests it does so, at least in part, through the derepression of key actin-regulating proteins. These findings further indicate that microRNAs may represent a previously underappreciated mechanism for regulating protein synthesis during memory consolidation.	Amygdala/ physiology;Animals;Conditioning (Psychology)/physiology;Fear/physiology;Immunoblotting;Male;Memory/ physiology;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Microarray Analysis;Neuronal Plasticity/physiology;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Transcriptome
Age-dependent patterns of microRNA RISC loading	A. Grigoriev and N. M. Bonini	2014	25324466		Aging/ metabolism;Animals;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;RNA-Induced Silencing Complex/ metabolism
Interplay between the oxidoreductase PDIA6 and microRNA-322 controls the response to disrupted endoplasmic reticulum calcium homeostasis	J. Groenendyk, et al.	2014	24917591	The disruption of the energy or nutrient balance triggers endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, a process that mobilizes various strategies, collectively called the unfolded protein response (UPR), which reestablish homeostasis of the ER and cell. Activation of the UPR stress sensor IRE1alpha (inositol-requiring enzyme 1alpha) stimulates its endoribonuclease activity, leading to the generation of the mRNA encoding the transcription factor XBP1 (X-box binding protein 1), which regulates the transcription of genes encoding factors involved in controlling the quality and folding of proteins. We found that the activity of IRE1alpha was regulated by the ER oxidoreductase PDIA6 (protein disulfide isomerase A6) and the microRNA miR-322 in response to disruption of ER Ca2+ homeostasis. PDIA6 interacted with IRE1alpha and enhanced IRE1alpha activity as monitored by phosphorylation of IRE1alpha and XBP1 mRNA splicing, but PDIA6 did not substantially affect the activity of other pathways that mediate responses to ER stress. ER Ca2+ depletion and activation of store-operated Ca2+ entry reduced the abundance of the microRNA miR-322, which increased PDIA6 mRNA stability and, consequently, IRE1alpha activity during the ER stress response. In vivo experiments with mice and worms showed that the induction of ER stress correlated with decreased miR-322 abundance, increased PDIA6 mRNA abundance, or both. Together, these findings demonstrated that ER Ca2+, PDIA6, IRE1alpha, and miR-322 function in a dynamic feedback loop modulating the UPR under conditions of disrupted ER Ca2+ homeostasis.	Animals;COS Cells;Calcium/ metabolism;Cercopithecus aethiops;DNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Endoplasmic Reticulum/genetics/ metabolism;Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress/ physiology;Endoribonucleases/genetics/metabolism;Homeostasis/ physiology;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;NIH 3T3 Cells;Protein Disulfide-Isomerases/genetics/ metabolism;Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases/genetics/metabolism;Regulatory Factor X Transcription Factors;Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;X-Box Binding Protein 1
MiR-497 approximately 195 cluster microRNAs regulate osteoblast differentiation by targeting BMP signaling	J. Grunhagen, et al.	2015	25407900	MicroRNAs play important roles during cell reprogramming and differentiation. In this study, we identified the miR-497 approximately 195 cluster, a member of the miR-15 family, as strongly upregulated with age of postnatal bone development in vivo and late differentiation stages of primary osteoblasts cultured in vitro. Early expression of miR-195-5p inhibits differentiation and mineralization. Microarray analyses along with quantitative PCR demonstrate that miR-195-5p alters the gene regulatory network of osteoblast differentiation and impairs the induction of bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) responsive genes. Applying reporter gene and Western blot assays, we show that miR-195-5p interferes with the BMP/Smad-pathway in a dose-dependent manner. Systematically comparing the changes in mRNA levels in response to miR-195-5p overexpression with the changes observed in the natural course of osteoblast differentiation, we demonstrate that microRNAs of the miR-15 family affect several target genes involved in BMP signaling. Predicted targets including Furin, a protease that cleaves pro-forms, genes encoding receptors such as Acvr2a, Bmp1a, Dies1, and Tgfbr3, molecules within the cascade like Smad5, transcriptional regulators like Ski and Zfp423 as well as Mapk3 and Smurf1 were validated by quantitative PCR. Taken together, our data strongly suggest that miR-497 approximately 195 cluster microRNAs act as intracellular antagonists of BMP signaling in bone cells.	Aging/genetics;Animals;Animals, Newborn;Bone Morphogenetic Protein 2/pharmacology;Bone Morphogenetic Proteins/ metabolism;Cell Differentiation/drug effects/ genetics;Cell Proliferation/drug effects;Computational Biology;Extracellular Matrix/drug effects/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;NIH 3T3 Cells;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Osteoblasts/ cytology/ metabolism;Recombinant Proteins/pharmacology;Reproducibility of Results;Signal Transduction/drug effects/ genetics;Transforming Growth Factor beta/pharmacology;Bmp signaling;Osteoblast differentiation;miR-15 FAMILY;miR-195;miR-497
Functional SNP in 3'-UTR MicroRNA-Binding Site of ZNF350 Confers Risk for Age-Related Cataract	S. Gu, et al.	2016	27586871	Many studies have suggested that individual susceptibility to age-related cataract (ARC) may be associated with DNA sequence polymorphisms affecting gene regulation. As DNA repair is implicated in ARC pathogenesis and single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the 3'-terminal untranslated region (3'-UTR) targeted by microRNAs (miRNAs) can alter the gene function, we hypothesize that the miRNA-binding SNPs (miRSNPs) in DNA double-strand break repair (DSBR) and nucleotide excision repair (NER) pathways might associate with ARC risk. We genotyped nine miRSNPs of eight genes in DSBR and NER pathways in Chinese population and found that ZNF350- rs2278414:G>A was significantly associated with ARC risk. Even though the Comet assay of cellular DNA damage indicated that all the subtypes of ARC patients had more DNA breaks in peripheral lymphocytes than the controls independent of rs2278414 genotypes, individuals carrying the variant A allele (AA and AG) had lower ZNF350 mRNA levels compared with individuals with GG genotype. Moreover, the in vitro experiment indicated that miR-21-3p and miR-150-5p specifically downregulated luciferase reporter expression in the cell lines transfected with rs2278414 A allele compared with rs2278414 G. These results suggested that the association of SNP rs2278414 with ARC might involve an altered miRNA regulation of ZNF350.	3'-utr;MicroRNA;Snp;Znf350;age-related cataract
[How to develop molecular epidemiology in conventional epidemiology survey on eye diseases in China]	H. J. Guan	2012	22800415	Molecular epidemiology is a new branch of eye epidemiology that combines theories and methods in both epidemiology and molecular biology. The definition of molecular epidemiology is to use biological and, in particular, genetic markers (nucleic acid, protein) as measures for detecting the propensity of a disease developing, or as an indicator of a disease or an exposure in the studies of disease distribution. Molecular epidemiology has the same objectives as conventional ophthalmic epidemiology in a defined population. The main designs used in ophthalmic molecular epidemiology include descriptive study, case control study, and nested case control study. Currently, molecular experimental techniques mainly include single nucleotide polymorphism, ELISA, protein and mRNA array, microRNA and the study of epigenetic markers. Gene susceptibility biomarker is one of the most commonly used molecular markers. The findings of ophthalmic molecular epidemiology studies can be used to design personalized therapy. Undoubtedly, ophthalmic molecular epidemiology will evolve and develop in the new era for the prevention and control of complex eye diseases such as age-related macular degeneration, cataract, glaucoma and diabetic retinopathy.	China/epidemiology;Disease Susceptibility;Eye Diseases/ epidemiology/ genetics;Humans;Molecular Epidemiology
Sexual Dimorphism and Aging in the Human Hyppocampus: Identification, Validation, and Impact of Differentially Expressed Genes by Factorial Microarray and Network Analysis	D. V. Guebel and N. V. Torres	2016	27761111	Motivation: In the brain of elderly-healthy individuals, the effects of sexual dimorphism and those due to normal aging appear overlapped. Discrimination of these two dimensions would powerfully contribute to a better understanding of the etiology of some neurodegenerative diseases, such as "sporadic" Alzheimer. Methods: Following a system biology approach, top-down and bottom-up strategies were combined. First, public transcriptome data corresponding to the transition from adulthood to the aging stage in normal, human hippocampus were analyzed through an optimized microarray post-processing (Q-GDEMAR method) together with a proper experimental design (full factorial analysis). Second, the identified genes were placed in context by building compatible networks. The subsequent ontology analyses carried out on these networks clarify the main functionalities involved. Results: Noticeably we could identify large sets of genes according to three groups: those that exclusively depend on the sex, those that exclusively depend on the age, and those that depend on the particular combinations of sex and age (interaction). The genes identified were validated against three independent sources (a proteomic study of aging, a senescence database, and a mitochondrial genetic database). We arrived to several new inferences about the biological functions compromised during aging in two ways: by taking into account the sex-independent effects of aging, and considering the interaction between age and sex where pertinent. In particular, we discuss the impact of our findings on the functions of mitochondria, autophagy, mitophagia, and microRNAs. Conclusions: The evidence obtained herein supports the occurrence of significant neurobiological differences in the hippocampus, not only between adult and elderly individuals, but between old-healthy women and old-healthy men. Hence, to obtain realistic results in further analysis of the transition from the normal aging to incipient Alzheimer, the features derived from the sexual dimorphism in hippocampus should be explicitly considered.	aging;autophagia;hippocampus;microRNAs;microarray;mitochondria;senescence;sexual differences
Early miR-155 upregulation contributes to neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's disease triple transgenic mouse model	J. R. Guedes, et al.	2014	24990149	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as a class of small, endogenous, regulatory RNAs that exhibit the ability to epigenetically modulate the translation of mRNAs into proteins. This feature enables them to control cell phenotypes and, consequently, modify cell function in a disease context. The role of inflammatory miRNAs in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and their ability to modulate glia responses are now beginning to be explored. In this study, we propose to disclose the functional role of miR-155, one of the most well studied immune-related miRNAs in AD-associated neuroinflammatory events, employing the 3xTg AD animal model. A strong upregulation of miR-155 levels was observed in the brain of 12-month-old 3xTg AD animals. This event occurred simultaneously with an increase of microglia and astrocyte activation, and before the appearance of extracellular Abeta aggregates, suggesting that less complex Abeta species, such as Abeta oligomers may contribute to early neuroinflammation. In addition, we investigated the contribution of miR-155 and the c-Jun transcription factor to the molecular mechanisms that underlie Abeta-mediated activation of glial cells. Our results suggest early miR-155 and c-Jun upregulation in the 3xTg AD mice, as well as in Abeta-activated microglia and astrocytes, thus contributing to the production of inflammatory mediators such as IL-6 and IFN-beta. This effect is associated with a miR-155-dependent decrease of suppressor of cytokine signaling 1. Furthermore, since c-Jun silencing decreases the levels of miR-155 in Abeta-activated microglia and astrocytes, we propose that miR-155 targeting can constitute an interesting and promising approach to control neuroinflammation in AD.	Alzheimer Disease/immunology/metabolism/ pathology;Amyloid beta-Peptides/metabolism;Animals;Astrocytes/metabolism;Brain/ metabolism/pathology;Cell Line;Inflammation/immunology/metabolism/pathology;JNK Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases/metabolism;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Microglia/metabolism;Neurons/ metabolism;Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling 1 Protein;Suppressor of Cytokine Signaling Proteins/metabolism;Up-Regulation
MicroRNA deregulation and chemotaxis and phagocytosis impairment in Alzheimer's disease	J. R. Guedes, et al.	2016	27239545	INTRODUCTION: Mononuclear phagocytes play a critical role during Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis due to their contribution to innate immune responses and amyloid beta (Abeta) clearance mechanisms. METHODS: Blood-derived monocytes (BDMs) and monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs) were isolated from blood of AD, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients, and age-matched healthy controls for molecular and phenotypic comparisons. RESULTS: The chemokine/chemokine receptor CCL2/CCR2 axis was impaired in BDMs from AD and MCI patients, causing a deficit in cell migration. Changes were also observed in MDM-mediated phagocytosis of Abeta fibrils, correlating with alterations in the expression and processing of the triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2). Finally, immune-related microRNAs (miRNAs), including miR-155, -154, -200b, -27b, and -128, were found to be differentially expressed in these cells. DISCUSSION: This work provides evidence that chemotaxis and phagocytosis, two crucial innate immune functions, are impaired in AD and MCI patients. Correlations with miRNA levels suggest an epigenetic contribution to systemic immune dysfunction in AD.	Alzheimer's disease;Ccr2;Chemotaxis;Macrophages;Monocytes;Phagocytosis;Trem2;miRNAs
Small RNA Sequencing Uncovers New miRNAs and moRNAs Differentially Expressed in Normal and Primary Myelofibrosis CD34+ Cells	P. Guglielmelli, et al.	2015	26468945	Myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPN) are chronic myeloid cancers thought to arise at the level of CD34+ hematopoietic stem/progenitor cells. They include essential thrombocythemia (ET), polycythemia vera (PV) and primary myelofibrosis (PMF). All can progress to acute leukemia, but PMF carries the worst prognosis. Increasing evidences indicate that deregulation of microRNAs (miRNAs) might plays an important role in hematologic malignancies, including MPN. To attain deeper knowledge of short RNAs (sRNAs) expression pattern in CD34+ cells and of their possible role in mediating post-transcriptional regulation in PMF, we sequenced with Illumina HiSeq2000 technology CD34+ cells from healthy subjects and PMF patients. We detected the expression of 784 known miRNAs, with a prevalence of miRNA up-regulation in PMF samples, and discovered 34 new miRNAs and 99 new miRNA-offset RNAs (moRNAs), in CD34+ cells. Thirty-seven small RNAs were differentially expressed in PMF patients compared with healthy subjects, according to microRNA sequencing data. Five miRNAs (miR-10b-5p, miR-19b-3p, miR-29a-3p, miR-379-5p, and miR-543) were deregulated also in PMF granulocytes. Moreover, 3'-moR-128-2 resulted consistently downregulated in PMF according to RNA-seq and qRT-PCR data both in CD34+ cells and granulocytes. Target predictions of these validated small RNAs de-regulated in PMF and functional enrichment analyses highlighted many interesting pathways involved in tumor development and progression, such as signaling by FGFR and DAP12 and Oncogene Induced Senescence. As a whole, data obtained in this study deepened the knowledge of miRNAs and moRNAs altered expression in PMF CD34+ cells and allowed to identify and validate a specific small RNA profile that distinguishes PMF granulocytes from those of normal subjects. We thus provided new information regarding the possible role of miRNAs and, specifically, of new moRNAs in this disease.	Adaptor Proteins, Signal Transducing/genetics/metabolism;Antigens, CD34/genetics/ metabolism;Base Sequence;Case-Control Studies;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Granulocytes/metabolism;Humans;Lymphocytes/ metabolism;Membrane Proteins/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Molecular Sequence Data;Primary Myelofibrosis/genetics/ metabolism;Receptors, Fibroblast Growth Factor/genetics/metabolism
MicroRNA 21 is up-regulated in adipose tissue of obese diabetic subjects	V. Guglielmi, et al.	2017	28447068	We investigated miR21 expression in omental (OAT) and subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) from 16 obese subjects undergoing bariatric surgery. Patients were divided into two age- and BMI-matched groups according to the presence of type 2 diabetes (T2D). miR21 was not differently expressed in OAT and SAT. However, miR21 expression was two folds greater in adipose tissue in patients with T2D. Accordingly, in primary cultures of adipocytes from non diabetic overweight subjects, miR21 expression increased after 24-h exposure to high glucose and insulin. In conclusion, miR21 appears linked to insulin-resistance deterioration within its pathophysiologic progression from obesity to T2D.	Micro RNA;human adipocyte;miR21;obesity;omental adipose tissue;subcutaneous adipose tissue;type 2 diabetes
Altered microRNA profiles in cerebrospinal fluid exosome in Parkinson disease and Alzheimer disease	Y. Gui, et al.	2015	26497684	The differential diagnosis of Parkinson's diseases (PD) is challenging, especially in the early stages of the disease. We developed a microRNA profiling strategy for exosomal miRNAs isolated from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in PD and AD. Sixteen exosomal miRNAs were up regulated and 11 miRNAs were under regulated significantly in PD CSF when compared with those in healthy controls (relative fold > 2, p < 0.05). MiR-1 and miR-19b-3p were validated and significantly reduced in independent samples. While miR-153, miR-409-3p, miR-10a-5p, and let-7g-3p were significantly over expressed in PD CSF exosome. Bioinformatic analysis by DIANA-mirPath demonstrated that Neurotrophin signaling, mTOR signaling, Ubiquitin mediated proteolysis, Dopaminergic synapse, and Glutamatergic synapse were the most prominent pathways enriched in quantiles with PD miRNA patterns. Messenger RNA (mRNA) transcripts [amyloid precursor protein (APP), alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn), Tau, neurofilament light gene (NF-L), DJ-1/PARK7, Fractalkine and Neurosin] and long non-coding RNAs (RP11-462G22.1 and PCA3) were differentially expressed in CSF exosomes in PD and AD patients. These data demonstrated that CSF exosomal RNA molecules are reliable biomarkers with fair robustness in regard to specificity and sensitivity in differentiating PD from healthy and diseased (AD) controls.	Alzheimer Disease/ cerebrospinal fluid/genetics;Biomarkers/ metabolism;Case-Control Studies;Diagnosis, Differential;Exosomes/ metabolism;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Parkinson Disease/ cerebrospinal fluid/genetics;Prognosis;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Alzheimer's diseases (AD);Parkinson's diseases (PD);Pathology Section;cerebrospinal fluid (CSF);exosome;microRNA
Genome-Wide miRNA Screening for Genes Bypassing Oncogene-Induced Senescence	M. V. Guijarro and A. Carnero	2017	27812867	MicroRNAs are small noncoding RNAs that regulate gene expression by binding to sequences within the 3'-UTR of mRNAs. Genome-wide screens have proven powerful in associating genes with certain phenotypes or signal transduction pathways and thus are valuable tools to define gene function. Here we describe a genome-wide miRNA screening strategy to identify miRNAs that are required to bypass oncogene-induced senescence.	Cellular senescence;Oncogene-induced senescence;Screening;miRNA
Functional genomics of candidate genes derived from genome-wide association studies for five common neurological diseases	G. P. Guio-Vega and D. A. Forero	2017	26829381	AIM: Recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) are identifying novel candidate genes for several neurological diseases (NDs). However, a global functional analysis of those genes derived from GWAS for NDs is missing. We explored the genomic and functional features of novel candidate genes for five common NDs: Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, stroke and migraine. MATERIALS AND METHODS: A functional enrichment analysis was performed for GWAS-derived genes, for categories such as Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways, gene expression, InterPro domains, transcription factor binding sites, gene ontology (GO) terms and microRNA (miRNA) targets. An analysis of protein-protein interactions was carried out. RESULTS: Six hundred and forty-two unique single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified for the five NDs and 2.3% of them were non-synonymous SNPs. There were no common SNPs for all five NDs and eight genes were associated with more than one ND. The enrichment analysis showed significant values for several GO categories, such as cell-cell adhesion and location in neurites and for expression in prefrontal cortex. An analysis of protein-protein interactions showed the evidence of a large component. Fifty-one of these GWAS-derived genes are known to be potentially druggable and twelve are known to harbor mutations for neuropsychiatric disorders. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that there is little overlap between the genes identified in GWAS for the five common NDs. Identification of functional categories in the GWAS-derived candidate genes for common NDs could lead to a better understanding of their functional consequences and could be useful for the future discovery of additional genetic risk factors for those diseases.	Computational Biology;Female;Genetic Predisposition to Disease/ genetics;Genome-Wide Association Study;Genomics;Humans;Male;Nervous System Diseases/ genetics/metabolism;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide/ genetics;Protein Interaction Maps;neurological disorders;systems biology
Aging-associated exacerbation in fatty degeneration and infiltration after rotator cuff tear	J. P. Gumucio, et al.	2014	23790676	BACKGROUND: Rotator cuff tears are one of the most common musculoskeletal complaints and a substantial source of morbidity in elderly patients. Chronic cuff tears are associated with muscle atrophy and an infiltration of fat to the area, a condition known as "fatty degeneration." To improve the treatment of cuff tears in elderly patients, a greater understanding of the changes in the contractile properties of muscle fibers and the molecular regulation of fatty degeneration is essential. METHODS: Using a full-thickness, massive supraspinatus and infraspinatus tear model in elderly rats, we measured fiber contractility and determined changes in fiber type distribution that develop 30 days after tear. We also measured the expression of messenger RNA and micro-RNA transcripts involved in muscle atrophy, lipid accumulation, and matrix synthesis. We hypothesized that a decrease in specific force of muscle fibers, an accumulation of type IIb fibers, and an upregulation in atrophic, fibrogenic, and inflammatory gene expression would occur in torn cuff muscles. RESULTS: Thirty days after the tear, we observed a reduction in muscle fiber force and an induction of RNA molecules that regulate atrophy, fibrosis, lipid accumulation, inflammation, and macrophage recruitment. A marked accumulation of advanced glycation end products and a significant accretion of macrophages in areas of fat accumulation were observed. CONCLUSIONS: The extent of degenerative changes in old rats was greater than that observed in adults. In addition, we identified that the ectopic fat accumulation that occurs in chronic cuff tears does not occur by activation of canonical intramyocellular lipid storage and synthesis pathways.	Adipose Tissue/pathology;Aging/ metabolism/pathology;Animals;Disease Models, Animal;Immunohistochemistry;Male;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis;Muscle Contraction/physiology;Muscle Fibers, Skeletal/ metabolism/pathology;Muscular Atrophy/ metabolism/pathology;RNA, Messenger/biosynthesis;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Rotator Cuff/ metabolism/pathology;Rotator Cuff Injuries;Tendon Injuries/ metabolism/pathology;Animal Model;Basic Science Study;Fatty degeneration;Molecular and Cell Biology;atrophy;lipid droplets;macrophages;rotator cuff;sarcopenia
Age and sex differences in microRNAs expression during the process of thymus aging	D. Guo, et al.	2017	28369179	The gender-biased thymus involution and the importance of microRNAs (miRNAs, miRs) expression in modulating the thymus development have been reported in many studies. However, how males and females differ in so many ways in thymus involution remains unclear. To address this question, we investigated the miRNA expression profiles in both untreated 3- and 12-month-old female and male mice thymuses. The results showed that 7 and 18 miRNAs were defined as the sex- and age-specific miRNAs, respectively. The expression of miR-181c-5p, miR-20b-5p, miR-98b-5p, miR-329-3p, miR-341-5p, and miR-2137 showed significant age-difference in mice thymus by quantitative polymerase chain reaction. High expression levels of miR-2137 were detected in mice thymic epithelial cells and gradually increased during the process of thymus aging. MiR-27b-3p and miR-378a-3p of the female-biased miRNAs were confirmed as the sex- and estrogen-responsive miRNAs in mice thymus in vivo. Their potential target genes and the pathway were identified by the online software. Possible regulation roles of sex- and age-specific miRNA expression during the process of thymus aging were discussed. Our results suggested that these miRNAs may be potential biomarkers for the study of sex- and age-specific thymus aging and involution.	age;estrogen;miR-2137;miRNA expression;sex;thymus involution
MicroRNA-195a-5p inhibits mouse medullary thymic epithelial cells proliferation by directly targeting Smad7	D. Guo, et al.	2016	26837421	MiR-195 has been implicated in inhibiting cell proliferation in different types of tumors. Whether it contributes to the process of thymic epithelial cells (TECs) proliferation remains unclear. In this study, we found that miR-195a-5p was highly up-regulated in the TECs isolated from the aging mice. Further experiments showed that miR-195a-5p mimic transfection inhibited the proliferation of mouse medullary thymic epithelial cell line 1 (MTEC1), whereas the transfection of miR-195a-5p inhibitor in MTEC1 had the opposite effect. In addition, miR-195a-5p had no obvious effect on MTEC1 apoptosis. Furthermore, Smad7, a negative regulator of transforming growth factor beta pathway, was confirmed as a direct target of miR-195a-5p by luciferase assays. Taken together, our results indicate that miR-195a-5p inhibits MTEC1 proliferation, at least in part, via down-regulation of Smad7.	Animals;Apoptosis;Cell Proliferation/ physiology;Epithelial Cells/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;MicroRNAs/metabolism/ physiology;Smad7 Protein/ metabolism;Thymus Gland/ cytology/metabolism;cell proliferation, Smad7;miR-195a-5p;mouse thymic epithelial cell
MicroRNA-181a-5p enhances cell proliferation in medullary thymic epithelial cells via regulating TGF-beta signaling	D. Guo, et al.	2016	27411504	The expression profiles of miRNAs in thymus tissues from mice of different age have been demonstrated in our previous study. After an integrated analysis of the miRNA expression profiles, we demonstrated that the expression of miR-181a-5p was significantly decreased in thymic epithelial cells (TECs) from 10- to 19-month-old mice when compared with that in TECs from 1-month-old mice by quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. We hypothesized that miR-181a-5p in TECs might be associated with the age-related thymus involution through regulating some genes or signaling pathway. To test this hypothesis, the mouse medullary thymic epithelial cells (MTEC1) were used. Transfection with miR-181a-5p mimic promoted the proliferation of MTEC1 cells, but did not affect apoptosis. The effect was reversed when the expression of miR-181a-5p was suppressed in MTEC1 cells. Furthermore, the transforming growth factor beta receptor I (Tgfbr1) was confirmed as a direct target of miR-181a-5p by luciferase assay. Moreover, it was found that overexpression of miR-181a-5p down-regulated the phosphorylation of Smad3 and blocked the activation of the transforming growth factor beta signaling. Nevertheless, an inversely correlation was observed between the expression of Tgfbr1 and miR-181a-5p in TECs derived from mice of different age. Collectively, we provide evidence that miR-181a-5p may be an important endogenous regulator in the proliferation of TECs, and the expression levels of miR-181a-5p in TECs may be associated with the age-related thymus involution.	Aging/genetics/metabolism;Animals;Apoptosis/genetics/physiology;Cell Line;Cell Proliferation/genetics/physiology;Cell Survival/genetics/physiology;Down-Regulation;Epithelial Cells/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases/genetics/metabolism;Receptors, Transforming Growth Factor beta/genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction/genetics;Smad3 Protein/genetics/metabolism;Thymus Gland/ cytology/ metabolism;Transcriptome;Transforming Growth Factor beta/ metabolism;TGF-beta signaling;Tgfbr1;cell proliferation;miR-181a-5p;mouse thymic epithelial cell
Epigenetic changes of mesenchymal stem cells in three-dimensional (3D) spheroids	L. Guo, et al.	2014	25090911	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) hold profound promise in tissue repair/regeneration. However, MSCs undergo remarkable spontaneous differentiation and aging during monolayer culture expansion. In this study, we found that 2-3 days of three-dimensional (3D) spheroid culture of human MSCs (hMSCs) that had been expanded in monolayer for six passages increased their clonogenicity and differentiation potency to neuronal cells. Moreover, in accordance with these changes, the expression levels of miRNA which were involved in stem cell potency were changed and levels of histone H3 acetylation in K9 in promoter regions of Oct4, Sox2 and Nanog were elevated. Our results indicate that spheroid culture increases their multi-potency and changes the epigenetic status of pluripotent genes in hMSCs.	Acetylation;Blotting, Western;Cell Differentiation;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Chromatin Immunoprecipitation;Epigenesis, Genetic/ genetics;Female;Fluorescent Antibody Technique;Histones/metabolism;Homeodomain Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Humans;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ cytology/ metabolism;Nanog Homeobox Protein;Octamer Transcription Factor-3/genetics/metabolism;Placenta/cytology/metabolism;Pregnancy;Promoter Regions, Genetic/genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Regeneration;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;SOXB1 Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;Spheroids, Cellular/ cytology/ metabolism;3D culture;histone acetylation;mesenchymal stem cells;miRNA;multi-potency
Novel MicroRNA Reporter Uncovers Repression of Let-7 by GSK-3beta	R. Guo, et al.	2013	23840442	Several members of the let-7 microRNA family are downregulated in ovarian and other cancers. They are thought to act as tumor suppressors by lowering growth-promoting and anti-apoptotic proteins. In order to measure cellular let-7 levels systematically, we have developed a highly sensitive let-7 reporter assay system based on the expression of a chimeric mRNA that contains the luciferase coding region and a 3'-untranslated region (UTR) bearing two let-7-binding sites. In cells expressing the reporter construct, termed pmirGLO-let7, luciferase activity was high when let-7 was absent, while luciferase activity was low when let-7 levels were elevated. The ovarian cancer cell lines BG-1 and UCI-101 were transfected with the let-7 reporter and surveyed with a library of kinase inhibitors in order to identify pathways affecting let-7 activity. Among the inhibitors causing changes in endogenous let-7 abundance, the lowering of glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3)beta function specifically increased let-7 levels and lowered luciferase activity. Similarly, silencing GSK-3beta increased both mature and primary-let-7 levels in BG-1 cells, and decreased BG-1 cell survival. Further studies identified p53 as a downstream effector of the GSK-3beta-mediated repression of let-7 biosynthesis. Our studies highlight GSK-3beta as a novel therapeutic target in ovarian tumorigenesis.	
Profiles of the auditory epithelia related microRNA expression in neonatal and adult rats	W. Guo, et al.	2014	25192719	BACKGROUND: The impact of miRNA differential expression on the auditory epithelium stem cell development in postnatal rats is not clear. The present study was designed to analyze miRNA expression in the organ of Corti of neonatal and adult rats. METHODS: The cochleae of newborn (P0) and adult (P30) Sprague-Dawley rats were dissected in cold PBS to collect the sensory epithelia. Small RNAs were extracted using the mirVana RNA Isolation kit. Then, miRNA expression profiling was performed with RNAs from three newborns and three adult rats utilizing the TaqMan Array Rodent MicroRNA Panel. RESULTS: Eighteen miRNAs were found be differentially expressed, 16 were unregulated in mature cochleae with the fold changes ranging from 17 to 600 folds. The expression levels of two miRNAs were reduced in the mature rat cochleae. GO analysis and signaling pathway analysis revealed the potential involvement of the miRNAs in the regulation of Wnt and TGF-beta signaling pathways in hair cell development. CONCLUSIONS: Our results provided novel insights into the functional significance of miRNAs in the basilar membrane cells development, and revealed the potential importance of miRNAs in the hair cell by regulation of Wnt and TGF-beta signaling.	Aging;Animals;Animals, Newborn;Auditory Cortex/ metabolism;Cell Differentiation/ physiology;Epithelial Cells/ metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis/methods;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction/methods;Signal Transduction/ physiology;Transforming Growth Factor beta/metabolism
Kallistatin reduces vascular senescence and aging by regulating microRNA-34a-SIRT1 pathway	Y. Guo, et al.	2017	28544111	Kallistatin, an endogenous protein, protects against vascular injury by inhibiting oxidative stress and inflammation in hypertensive rats and enhancing the mobility and function of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs). We aimed to determine the role and mechanism of kallistatin in vascular senescence and aging using cultured EPCs, streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic mice, and Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans). Human kallistatin significantly decreased TNF-alpha-induced cellular senescence in EPCs, as indicated by reduced senescence-associated beta-galactosidase activity and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 expression, and elevated telomerase activity. Kallistatin blocked TNF-alpha-induced superoxide levels, NADPH oxidase activity, and microRNA-21 (miR-21) and p16INK4a synthesis. Kallistatin prevented TNF-alpha-mediated inhibition of SIRT1, eNOS, and catalase, and directly stimulated the expression of these antioxidant enzymes. Moreover, kallistatin inhibited miR-34a synthesis, whereas miR-34a overexpression abolished kallistatin-induced antioxidant gene expression and antisenescence activity. Kallistatin via its active site inhibited miR-34a, and stimulated SIRT1 and eNOS synthesis in EPCs, which was abolished by genistein, indicating an event mediated by tyrosine kinase. Moreover, kallistatin administration attenuated STZ-induced aortic senescence, oxidative stress, and miR-34a and miR-21 synthesis, and increased SIRT1, eNOS, and catalase levels in diabetic mice. Furthermore, kallistatin treatment reduced superoxide formation and prolonged wild-type C. elegans lifespan under oxidative or heat stress, although kallistatin's protective effect was abolished in miR-34 or sir-2.1 (SIRT1 homolog) mutant C. elegans. Kallistatin inhibited miR-34, but stimulated sir-2.1 and sod-3 synthesis in C. elegans. These in vitro and in vivo studies provide significant insights into the role and mechanism of kallistatin in vascular senescence and aging by regulating miR-34a-SIRT1 pathway.	aging;kallistatin;microRNA-34a;oxidative stress;sirtuin 1;vascular senescence
MiR-34a inhibits lymphatic metastasis potential of mouse hepatoma cells	Y. Guo, et al.	2011	21553024	MicroRNAs are small non-coding RNAs that regulate the expression of other genes in a post-transcriptional manner. MiR-34a can induce apoptosis, cell cycle arrest, and senescence. However, its role in tumor progress remains to be fully elucidated. In the present study, the role of miR-34a in lymphatic metastasis was investigated using mouse hepatocarcinoma cell lines Hca-F and Hepa1-6. MicroRNA profiling and Hairpin-RT-PCR analysis showed that the expression level of miR-34a was higher in Hepa1-6 cells (of no metastatic ability) than that in Hca-F cells (of high metastatic ability). Ectopic expression of miR-34a can inhibit cell growth and cell invasion in Hepa1-6 and Hca-F cells. Moreover, miR-34a triggers G1 arrest and down-regulates CyclinD1 and CDK6 in Hepa1-6 cells. Furthermore, we proved that miR-34a decreased adhesion of Hca-F cells to regional lymph node in vitro, reduced lymph nodes-metastasized burden, and inhibited tumor lymph node metastases in vivo. All these results suggest that miR-34a plays multiple tumor suppressive roles in murine hepatocarcinoma, not only inhibiting cell growth by cell cycle arrest, but also repressing metastasis, and may serve as a novel therapeutic target for hepatocarcinoma.	Animals;Carcinoma, Hepatocellular/genetics/ pathology;Cell Adhesion;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;G1 Phase;Lymph Nodes/pathology;Lymphatic Metastasis/ genetics;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neoplasm Invasiveness;Neoplasm Transplantation;Transcription, Genetic;Tumor Burden
Transcriptome analysis of murine thymic epithelial cells reveals ageassociated changes in microRNA expression	Z. Guo, et al.	2013	23969555	Age-related thymic involution is accompanied by a decrease in thymopoiesis and, thus, a deficiency in T cell-mediated immunity in the elderly. A number of events involved in thymic involution have been discovered; however, it remains unclear as to whether they are causes or consequences of thymic involution. These events include the degeneration of T cell progenitors, as well as the deterioration of the thymic stroma, which is a characteristic of thymic epithelial cell loss due to increased apoptosis and decreased cell proliferation. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are believed to play important roles in the regulation of cell death and proliferation during the aging process. In the present study, we compared the transcriptional levels of various miRNAs in TECs from young and aged mice using microarray analysis. Quantitative PCR was performed to confirm the changes in the expression of miRNAs in the different age groups. Possible downstream targets and pathways of these miRNAs were predicted by performing bioinformatics analysis. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to systematically analyze the expression of miRNAs in mouse TECs and to demonstrate that miRNA expression is altered with thymic aging.	Aging/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Apoptosis/physiology;Cell Proliferation;Computational Biology;Epithelial Cells/ metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Immunity, Cellular/immunology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Microarray Analysis;T-Lymphocytes/cytology/immunology/metabolism;Thymus Gland/ cytology/metabolism
miRiaD: A Text Mining Tool for Detecting Associations of microRNAs with Diseases	S. Gupta, et al.	2016	27216254	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs are increasingly being appreciated as critical players in human diseases, and questions concerning the role of microRNAs arise in many areas of biomedical research. There are several manually curated databases of microRNA-disease associations gathered from the biomedical literature; however, it is difficult for curators of these databases to keep up with the explosion of publications in the microRNA-disease field. Moreover, automated literature mining tools that assist manual curation of microRNA-disease associations currently capture only one microRNA property (expression) in the context of one disease (cancer). Thus, there is a clear need to develop more sophisticated automated literature mining tools that capture a variety of microRNA properties and relations in the context of multiple diseases to provide researchers with fast access to the most recent published information and to streamline and accelerate manual curation. METHODS: We have developed miRiaD (microRNAs in association with Disease), a text-mining tool that automatically extracts associations between microRNAs and diseases from the literature. These associations are often not directly linked, and the intermediate relations are often highly informative for the biomedical researcher. Thus, miRiaD extracts the miR-disease pairs together with an explanation for their association. We also developed a procedure that assigns scores to sentences, marking their informativeness, based on the microRNA-disease relation observed within the sentence. RESULTS: miRiaD was applied to the entire Medline corpus, identifying 8301 PMIDs with miR-disease associations. These abstracts and the miR-disease associations are available for browsing at http://biotm.cis.udel.edu/miRiaD . We evaluated the recall and precision of miRiaD with respect to information of high interest to public microRNA-disease database curators (expression and target gene associations), obtaining a recall of 88.46-90.78. When we expanded the evaluation to include sentences with a wide range of microRNA-disease information that may be of interest to biomedical researchers, miRiaD also performed very well with a F-score of 89.4. The informativeness ranking of sentences was evaluated in terms of nDCG (0.977) and correlation metrics (0.678-0.727) when compared to an annotator's ranked list. CONCLUSIONS: miRiaD, a high performance system that can capture a wide variety of microRNA-disease related information, extends beyond the scope of existing microRNA-disease resources. It can be incorporated into manual curation pipelines and serve as a resource for biomedical researchers interested in the role of microRNAs in disease. In our ongoing work we are developing an improved miRiaD web interface that will facilitate complex queries about microRNA-disease relationships, such as "In what diseases does microRNA regulation of apoptosis play a role?" or "Is there overlap in the sets of genes targeted by microRNAs in different types of dementia?"."	Associations;Disease;MicroRNA;Natural language processing;Relation extraction;Text-mining
Preclinical Development of a MicroRNA-Based Therapy for Elderly Patients With Myocardial Infarction	S. K. Gupta, et al.	2016	27687198	BACKGROUND: Aging populations show higher incidences of myocardial infarction (MI) and heart failure (HF). Cardiac remodeling post-MI leads to progressive impaired cardiac function caused by a disarray of several processes including derailed autophagy. Microribonucleic acids (miRNAs) are known to be key players in cardiovascular disease but their involvement in cardiac autophagy and aging is not well understood. OBJECTIVES: This study sought to identify new miRNA candidates that regulate cardiac autophagy and aging. METHODS: We exploited a high-throughput, fluorescence-activated cell sorting-based green fluorescent protein-LC3 detection method to measure the autophagic flux in cardiomyocytes after transfection of a precursor miRNA library consisting of 380 miRNAs. This was followed by a series of molecular and in vivo studies. RESULTS: Together with additional expression screenings, we identified miR-22 as an abundant and strong inhibitor of the cardiac autophagy process. Cardiac miR-22 expression levels increased during aging of mice as well as in aging neonatal cardiomyocytes in vitro by a P53-dependent mechanism. Inhibition of miR-22 in aging cardiomyocytes in vitro activated autophagy and inhibited cellular hypertrophy. Pharmacological inhibition of miR-22 post-MI in older mice activated cardiac autophagy, prevented post-infarction remodeling, and improved cardiac function compared with control subjects. Interestingly, similar effects were less pronounced in younger mice with significantly lower cardiac miR-22 expression levels. In addition, circulating levels of miR-22 in 154 patients with systolic HF were highly associated with early mortality. CONCLUSIONS: We concluded that miR-22 is an important regulator of cardiac autophagy and a potential therapeutic target, especially in the older myocardium. Finally, circulating miR-22 provides prognostic information for HF patients, highlighting miR-22 as a promising therapeutic and biomarker candidate for cardiovascular disorders.	Aged;Animals;Autophagy/ genetics;Biomarkers/blood;Cells, Cultured;Disease Models, Animal;Heart Failure/blood/genetics;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/blood/ physiology;Myocardial Infarction/ drug therapy/ genetics/pathology;Myocytes, Cardiac;MiR-22;aging;autophagy;circulating miRNA;p62
MicroRNAs in Human Diseases: From Autoimmune Diseases to Skin, Psychiatric and Neurodegenerative Diseases	T. Y. Ha	2011	22194706	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNA molecules that negatively regulate gene expression via degradation or translational repression of their target messenger RNAs (mRNAs). Recent studies have clearly demonstrated that miRNAs play critical roles in several biologic processes, including cell cycle, differentiation, cell development, cell growth, and apoptosis and that miRNAs are highly expressed in regulatory T (Treg) cells and a wide range of miRNAs are involved in the regulation of immunity and in the prevention of autoimmunity. It has been increasingly reported that miRNAs are associated with various human diseases like autoimmune disease, skin disease, neurological disease and psychiatric disease. Recently, the identification of mi- RNAs in skin has added a new dimension in the regulatory network and attracted significant interest in this novel layer of gene regulation. Although miRNA research in the field of dermatology is still relatively new, miRNAs have been the subject of much dermatological interest in skin morphogenesis and in regulating angiogenesis. In addition, miRNAs are moving rapidly onto center stage as key regulators of neuronal development and function in addition to important contributions to neurodegenerative disorder. Moreover, there is now compelling evidence that dysregulation of miRNA networks is implicated in the development and onset of human neruodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, Tourette's syndrome, Down syndrome, depression and schizophrenia. In this review, I briefly summarize the current studies about the roles of miRNAs in various autoimmune diseases, skin diseases, psychoneurological disorders and mental stress.	Autoimmnune disease;MicroRNAs;Psychiatric disease;Skin disease
miR-17, miR-19b, miR-20a, and miR-106a are down-regulated in human aging	M. Hackl, et al.	2010	20089119	Aging is a multifactorial process where deterioration of body functions is driven by stochastic damage while counteracted by distinct genetically encoded repair systems. To better understand the genetic component of aging, many studies have addressed the gene and protein expression profiles of various aging model systems engaging different organisms from yeast to human. The recently identified small non-coding miRNAs are potent post-transcriptional regulators that can modify the expression of up to several hundred target genes per single miRNA, similar to transcription factors. Increasing evidence shows that miRNAs contribute to the regulation of most if not all important physiological processes, including aging. However, so far the contribution of miRNAs to age-related and senescence-related changes in gene expression remains elusive. To address this question, we have selected four replicative cell aging models including endothelial cells, replicated CD8(+) T cells, renal proximal tubular epithelial cells, and skin fibroblasts. Further included were three organismal aging models including foreskin, mesenchymal stem cells, and CD8(+) T cell populations from old and young donors. Using locked nucleic acid-based miRNA microarrays, we identified four commonly regulated miRNAs, miR-17 down-regulated in all seven; miR-19b and miR-20a, down-regulated in six models; and miR-106a down-regulated in five models. Decrease in these miRNAs correlated with increased transcript levels of some established target genes, especially the cdk inhibitor p21/CDKN1A. These results establish miRNAs as novel markers of cell aging in humans.	Aging;CD8-Positive T-Lymphocytes/cytology/metabolism;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Down-Regulation;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis
Circulating microRNAs as novel biomarkers for bone diseases - Complex signatures for multifactorial diseases?	M. Hackl, et al.	2016	26525415	Biomarkers are essential tools in clinical research and practice. Useful biomarkers must combine good measurability, validated association with biological processes or outcomes, and should support clinical decision making if used in clinical practice. Several types of validated biomarkers have been reported in the context of bone diseases. However, because these biomarkers face certain limitations there is an interest in the identification of novel biomarkers for bone diseases, specifically in those that are tightly linked to the disease pathology leading to increased fracture-risk. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are the most abundant RNA species to be found in cell-free blood. Encapsulated within microvesicles or bound to proteins, circulating miRNAs are remarkably stable analytes that can be measured using gold-standard technologies such as quantitative polymerase-chain-reaction (qPCR). Nevertheless, the analysis of circulating miRNAs faces several pre-analytical as well as analytical challenges. From a biological view, there is accumulating evidence that miRNAs play essential roles in the regulation of various biological processes including bone homeostasis. Moreover, specific changes in miRNA transcription levels or miRNA secretory levels have been linked to the development and progression of certain bone diseases. Only recently, results from circulating miRNAs analysis in patients with osteopenia, osteoporosis and fragility fractures have been reported. By comparing these findings to studies on circulating miRNAs in cellular senescence and aging or muscle physiology and sarcopenia, several overlaps were observed. This suggests that signatures observed during osteoporosis might not be specific to the pathophysiology in bone, but rather integrate information from several tissue types. Despite these promising first data, more work remains to be done until circulating miRNAs can serve as established and robust diagnostic tools for bone diseases in clinical research, clinical routine and in personalized medicine.	Aging;Biomarkers;Bone disease;Circulating microRNA;Osteoporosis;Sarcopenia
The nuclear receptor gene nhr-25 plays multiple roles in the Caenorhabditis elegans heterochronic gene network to control the larva-to-adult transition	K. Hada, et al.	2010	20678979	Developmental timing in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is controlled by heterochronic genes, mutations in which cause changes in the relative timing of developmental events. One of the heterochronic genes, let-7, encodes a microRNA that is highly evolutionarily conserved, suggesting that similar genetic pathways control developmental timing across phyla. Here we report that the nuclear receptor nhr-25, which belongs to the evolutionarily conserved fushi tarazu-factor 1/nuclear receptor NR5A subfamily, interacts with heterochronic genes that regulate the larva-to-adult transition in C. elegans. We identified nhr-25 as a regulator of apl-1, a homolog of the Alzheimer's amyloid precursor protein-like gene that is downstream of let-7 family microRNAs. NHR-25 controls not only apl-1 expression but also regulates developmental progression in the larva-to-adult transition. NHR-25 negatively regulates the expression of the adult-specific collagen gene col-19 in lateral epidermal seam cells. In contrast, NHR-25 positively regulates the larva-to-adult transition for other timed events in seam cells, such as cell fusion, cell division and alae formation. The genetic relationships between nhr-25 and other heterochronic genes are strikingly varied among several adult developmental events. We propose that nhr-25 has multiple roles in both promoting and inhibiting the C. elegans heterochronic gene pathway controlling adult differentiation programs.	Animals;Caenorhabditis/genetics/metabolism;Caenorhabditis elegans/ genetics/metabolism/ physiology;Cell Differentiation/genetics;Cell Division;Gene Regulatory Networks;Larva/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Mutation;Receptors, Cytoplasmic and Nuclear/genetics/ metabolism
Influence of age and physical fitness on miRNA-21, TGF-beta and its receptors in leukocytes of healthy women	B. Halper, et al.	2015	25826292	The TGF-beta superfamily has been shown to play an important role in a wide range of physiological as well as pathological processes including ageing, immune modulation, atherosclerosis and cancer development. The aim of the current study was to investigate (i) whether TGF-beta signalling in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) would differ between young and old females and (ii) whether physical performance parameters of elderly women would be related to the expression of TGF-beta or its receptors. Sixteen healthy young (22-28 years; YF) and 90 healthy older (65-92 years; OF) females participated in the study. In addition to several components of health-related physical fitness, circulating CRP and TGF-beta levels were determined together with the mRNA expression of TGF-beta, TGF-betaRI, TGF-betaRII, and miRNA-21 (known to interfere with TGF-beta signalling) in PBMCs. Physical fitness as determined by 6-minutes walking test (YF:median 932 (range 573-1254) m; OF:360 (114-558) m), handgrip strength (YF: 32 (24-39) kg; OF:18(10-30) kg), relative isokinetic peak torque of knee extensors (YF:1.9 (1.2- 2.3) Nm/kg; OF:1.0 (0.2-1.9) Nm/kg and flexors (YF: 1.1 (0.7- 1.5) Nm/kg; OF: 0.5 (0.2-1.0) Nm/kg was substantially lower in older women (p<0.001 for all comparisons). These changes were paralleled by an increase in hs-CRP (YF: 0.9 (0.1-4.3)mg/L; OF: 2.3 (0.3-56.7)mg/L,p<0.001). Serum levels of TGF-beta and TGF-beta mRNA levels from PBMCs did not differ between young and old women whereas, both TGF- betaRI/GAPDH (YF: 4.07 (1.38-14.60); OF: 2.08 (0.14-28.81); p=0.020) and TGF-betaRII/GAPDH levels (YF: 3.16 (1.14- 10.25); OF: 1.71 (0.51-14.86); p=0.020) were lower with respect to old age. In elderly women, only TGF-betaRIota expression correlated negatively with miRNA-21 expression in PBMCs (rho=-0.315; p=0.004). Interestingly, hs-CRP and miRNA correlated positively with handgrip strength (rho=0.237 and rho=243, p<0.05), while none of the TGF-beta-related parameters were related to physical performance. The results suggest that age affects TGF-beta signalling in leukocytes by altering the expression levels of its receptors. These changes seem to occur independently of physical fitness of old women.	Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/blood/immunology/ physiology;Body Composition;C-Reactive Protein/analysis;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/ physiology;Healthy Volunteers;Humans;Leukocytes/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ blood;Physical Endurance/physiology;Physical Fitness/ physiology;RNA, Messenger/blood;Range of Motion, Articular;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction/physiology;Transforming Growth Factor beta/genetics/ metabolism;Walking;Young Adult;Inflamm-ageing;TGF-beta Pathway;TGF-beta receptors;Vienna Active Ageing Study.;microRNA-21;physical performance
MicroRNA expression profiling of NGF-treated PC12 cells revealed a critical role for miR-221 in neuronal differentiation	N. Hamada, et al.	2012	22465943	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that control protein expression through translational inhibition or mRNA degradation. MiRNAs have been implicated in diverse biological processes such as development, proliferation, apoptosis and differentiation. Upon treatment with nerve growth factor (NGF), rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells elicit neurite outgrowth and differentiate into neuron-like cells. NGF plays a critical role not only in neuronal differentiation but also in protection against apoptosis. In an attempt to identify NGF-regulated miRNAs in PC12 cells, we performed miRNA microarray analysis using total RNA harvested from cells treated with NGF. In response to NGF treatment, expression of 8 and 12 miRNAs were up- and down-regulated, respectively. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis of 11 out of 20 miRNAs verified increased expression of miR-181a( *), miR-221 and miR-326, and decreased expression of miR-106b( *), miR-126, miR-139-3p, miR-143, miR-210 and miR-532-3p after NGF treatment, among which miR-221 was drastically up-regulated. Functional annotation analysis of potential target genes of 7 out of 9 miRNAs excluding the passenger strands (*) revealed that NGF may regulate expression of various genes by controlling miRNA expression, including those whose functions and processes are known to be related to NGF. Overexpression of miR-221 induced neuronal differentiation of PC12 cells in the absence of NGF treatment, and also enhanced neuronal differentiation caused by low-dose NGF. Furthermore, miR-221 potentiated formation of neurite network, which was associated with increased expression of synapsin I, a marker for synapse formation. More importantly, knockdown of miR-221 expression by antagomir attenuated NGF-mediated neuronal differentiation. Finally, miR-221 decreased expression of Foxo3a and Apaf-1, both of which are known to be involved in apoptosis in PC12 cells. Our results suggest that miR-221 plays a critical role in neuronal differentiation as well as protection against apoptosis in PC12 cells.	Animals;Blotting, Western;Cell Differentiation/ genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;MicroRNAs/ genetics/physiology;Nerve Growth Factor/ pharmacology;Neurons/cytology/ drug effects;PC12 Cells;Rats;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction
Linking Hematopoietic Differentiation to Co-Expressed Sets of Pluripotency-Associated and Imprinted Genes and to Regulatory microRNA-Transcription Factor Motifs	M. Hamed, et al.	2017	28052084	Maintenance of cell pluripotency, differentiation, and reprogramming are regulated by complex gene regulatory networks (GRNs) including monoallelically-expressed imprinted genes. Besides transcriptional control, epigenetic modifications and microRNAs contribute to cellular differentiation. As a model system for studying the capacity of cells to preserve their pluripotency state and the onset of differentiation and subsequent specialization, murine hematopoiesis was used and compared to embryonic stem cells (ESCs) as a control. Using published microarray data, the expression profiles of two sets of genes, pluripotent and imprinted, were compared to a third set of known hematopoietic genes. We found that more than half of the pluripotent and imprinted genes are clearly upregulated in ESCs but subsequently repressed during hematopoiesis. The remaining genes were either upregulated in hematopoietic progenitors or in differentiated blood cells. The three gene sets each consist of three similarly behaving gene groups with similar expression profiles in various lineages of the hematopoietic system as well as in ESCs. To explain this co-regulation behavior, we explored the transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanisms of pluripotent and imprinted genes and their regulator/target miRNAs in six different hematopoietic lineages. Therewith, lineage-specific transcription factor (TF)-miRNA regulatory networks were generated and their topologies and functional impacts during hematopoiesis were analyzed. This led to the identification of TF-miRNA co-regulatory motifs, for which we validated the contribution to the cellular development of the corresponding lineage in terms of statistical significance and relevance to biological evidence. This analysis also identified key miRNAs and TFs/genes that might play important roles in the derived lineage networks. These molecular associations suggest new aspects of the cellular regulation of the onset of cellular differentiation and during hematopoiesis involving, on one hand, pluripotent genes that were previously not discussed in the context of hematopoiesis and, on the other hand, involve genes that are related to genomic imprinting. These are new links between hematopoiesis and cellular differentiation and the important field of epigenetic modifications.	
The adipokine leptin increases skeletal muscle mass and significantly alters skeletal muscle miRNA expression profile in aged mice	M. W. Hamrick, et al.	2010	20800581	Age-associated loss of muscle mass, or sarcopenia, contributes directly to frailty and an increased risk of falls and fractures among the elderly. Aged mice and elderly adults both show decreased muscle mass as well as relatively low levels of the fat-derived hormone leptin. Here we demonstrate that loss of muscle mass and myofiber size with aging in mice is associated with significant changes in the expression of specific miRNAs. Aging altered the expression of 57 miRNAs in mouse skeletal muscle, and many of these miRNAs are now reported to be associated specifically with age-related muscle atrophy. These include miR-221, previously identified in studies of myogenesis and muscle development as playing a role in the proliferation and terminal differentiation of myogenic precursors. We also treated aged mice with recombinant leptin, to determine whether leptin therapy could improve muscle mass and alter the miRNA expression profile of aging skeletal muscle. Leptin treatment significantly increased hindlimb muscle mass and extensor digitorum longus fiber size in aged mice. Furthermore, the expression of 37 miRNAs was altered in muscles of leptin-treated mice. In particular, leptin treatment increased the expression of miR-31 and miR-223, miRNAs known to be elevated during muscle regeneration and repair. These findings suggest that aging in skeletal muscle is associated with marked changes in the expression of specific miRNAs, and that nutrient-related hormones such as leptin may be able to reverse muscle atrophy and alter the expression of atrophy-related miRNAs in aging skeletal muscle.	Aging/ drug effects/genetics/pathology;Animals;Gene Expression Profiling;Leptin/ therapeutic use;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Muscle Development/ drug effects/genetics;Muscle, Skeletal/ drug effects/pathology;Muscular Atrophy/ drug therapy
Functional annotation of Alzheimer's disease associated loci revealed by GWASs	Z. Han, et al.	2017	28650998	Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) discovered a number of SNPs and genes associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, how these SNPs and genes influence the liability to AD is not fully understood. We deployed computational approaches to explore the function and action mechanisms of AD -related SNPs and genes identified by GWASs, including the effects of 195 GWAS lead SNPs and 338 proxy SNPs on miRNAs binding and protein phosphorylation, their RegulomeDB and 3DSNP scores, and gene ontology, pathway enrichment and protein-protein interaction network of 126 AD-associated genes. Our computational analysis identified 6 lead SNPs (rs10119, rs1048699, rs148763909, rs610932, rs6857 and rs714948) and 2 proxy SNPs (rs12539172 and rs2847655) that potentially impacted the miRNA binding. Lead SNP rs2296160 and proxy SNPs rs679620 and rs2228145 were identified as PhosSNPs potentially influencing protein phosphorylation. AD-associated genes showed enrichment of "regulation of beta-amyloid formation", "regulation of neurofibrillary tangle assembly", "leukocyte mediated immunity" and "protein-lipid complex assembly" signaling pathway. Protein-protein interaction network and functional module analyses identified highly-interconnected "hub" genes (APOE, PICALM, BIN1, ABCA7, CD2AP, CLU, CR1, MS4A4E and MS4A6A) and bottleneck genes (APOE, TOMM40, NME8, PICALM, CD2AP, ZCWPW1, FAM180B, GAB2 and PTK2B) that created three tight subnetworks. Our results provided the targets for further experimental assessment and further insight on AD pathophysiology.	
The RNA-binding protein Tristetraprolin (TTP) is a critical negative regulator of the NLRP3 inflammasome	M. Haneklaus, et al.	2017	28302726	The NLRP3 inflammasome is a central regulator of inflammation in many common diseases, including atherosclerosis and type 2 diabetes, driving the production of pro-inflammatory mediators such as IL-1beta and IL-18. Due to its function as an inflammatory gatekeeper, expression and activation of NLRP3 need to be tightly regulated. In this study, we highlight novel post-transcriptional mechanisms that can modulate NLRP3 expression. We have identified the RNA-binding protein Tristetraprolin (TTP) as a negative regulator of NLRP3 in human macrophages. TTP targets AU-rich elements in the NLRP3 3'-untranslated region (UTR) and represses NLRP3 expression. Knocking down TTP in primary macrophages leads to an increased induction of NLRP3 by LPS, which is also accompanied by increased Caspase-1 and IL-1beta cleavage upon NLRP3, but not AIM2 or NLRC4 inflammasome activation. Furthermore, we found that human NLRP3 can be alternatively polyadenylated, producing a short 3'-UTR isoform that excludes regulatory elements, including the TTP- and miRNA-223-binding sites. Because TTP also represses IL-1beta expression, it is a dual inhibitor of the IL-1beta system, regulating expression of the cytokine and the upstream controller NLRP3.	Nlrp3;Ttp;Tristetraprolin;inflammasome;inflammation;interleukin 1 (IL-1);macrophage;post-transcriptional regulation
miRNA-dependent gene silencing involving Ago2-mediated cleavage of a circular antisense RNA	T. B. Hansen, et al.	2011	21964070	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are approximately 22 nt non-coding RNAs that typically bind to the 3' UTR of target mRNAs in the cytoplasm, resulting in mRNA destabilization and translational repression. Here, we report that miRNAs can also regulate gene expression by targeting non-coding antisense transcripts in human cells. Specifically, we show that miR-671 directs cleavage of a circular antisense transcript of the Cerebellar Degeneration-Related protein 1 (CDR1) locus in an Ago2-slicer-dependent manner. The resulting downregulation of circular antisense has a concomitant decrease in CDR1 mRNA levels, independently of heterochromatin formation. This study provides the first evidence for non-coding antisense transcripts as functional miRNA targets, and a novel regulatory mechanism involving a positive correlation between mRNA and antisense circular RNA levels.	Argonaute Proteins/ metabolism/physiology;Autoantigens/genetics/metabolism;Base Sequence;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects/genetics;HEK293 Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/ pharmacology/physiology;Models, Biological;Molecular Sequence Data;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Nucleic Acid Conformation;RNA/drug effects/ metabolism;RNA Cleavage/drug effects/genetics/ physiology;RNA Interference/ drug effects;RNA Splicing/genetics/physiology;RNA, Antisense/chemistry/ metabolism
miR-146a is upregulated during retinal pigment epithelium (RPE)/choroid aging in mice and represses IL-6 and VEGF-A expression in RPE cells	Y. Hao, et al.	2016	27917303	PURPOSE: MicroRNA-146a (miR-146a) has been proposed as a marker for age-associated inflammation, or "inflammaging", acting as a negative regulator of cellular senescence and pro-inflammatory signaling pathways. However, the regulation and function of miR-146 during ocular aging remains unclear. Here we propose that miR-146 is regulated during aging of the retina and choroid, and functions in retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells to regulate key genes involved in inflammation and angiogenesis. METHODS: The expression of miR-146a and miR-146b was examined in the neuroretina and RPE/choroid in mice aged from 2 months to 24 months. Then, the effect of synthetic miR-146a mimetic on IL-6 and VEGF-A expression was analyzed in RPE cells treated with and without TNF-alpha. RESULTS: miR-146a and miR-146b was upregulated during aging of RPE/choroid but not neuroretina, supporting tissue-specific regulation of aging-related miRNAs in retinal tissues. Overexpression of miR-146a by miRNA mimics inhibited VEGF-A and TNF-alpha-induced IL-6 expression. CONCLUSIONS: Elevation of miR-146a and miR-146b in the aging RPE/choroid but not neuroretina suggests a role for miRNAs in inflammaging in the RPE/choroid. miR-146a overexpression inhibits the expression IL-6 and VEGF-A in the RPE cells, supporting a negative feedback regulation mechanism by which inflammatory pathways may be dysregulated in RPE during aging.	
Serum microRNA miR-501-3p as a potential biomarker related to the progression of Alzheimer's disease	N. Hara, et al.	2017	28137310	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are attractive molecules to utilize as one of the blood-based biomarkers for neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) because miRNAs are relatively stable in biofluid, including serum or plasma. To determine blood miRNA biomarkers for AD with next-generation sequencing genome-wide, we first surveyed 45 serum samples. These came from 27 AD patients and 18 controls (discovery set) that underwent autopsy within two weeks after their serum sampling and were neuropathologically diagnosed. We found that three miRNAs, hsa-miR-501-3p, hsa-let-7f-5p, and hsa-miR-26b-5p, were significantly deregulated between the AD samples and the controls. The deregulation for hsa-miR-501-3p was further confirmed by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in a validation set composed of 36 clinically diagnosed AD patients and 22 age-matched cognitively normal controls with a sensitivity and specificity of 53% and 100%, respectively (area under the curve = 0.82). Serum hsa-miR-501-3p levels were downregulated in AD patients, and its lower levels significantly correlated with lower Mini-Mental State Examination scores. Contrary to its serum levels, we found that hsa-miR-501-3p was remarkably upregulated in the same donors' AD brains obtained at autopsy from the discovery set. The hsa-miR-501-3p overexpression in cultured cells, which mimicked the hsa-miR-501-3p upregulation in the AD brains, induced significant downregulation of 128 genes that overrepresented the Gene Ontology terms, DNA replication, and the mitotic cell cycle. Our results suggest that hsa-miR-501-3p is a novel serum biomarker that presumably corresponds to pathological events occurring in AD brains.	Alzheimer's disease;Autopsied brain;Blood-based biomarker;Braak staging;Next-generation sequencing;miR-501-3p;microRNA
The expression of miR-124 increases in aged skin to cause cell senescence and it decreases in squamous cell carcinoma	M. Harada, et al.	2017	27818465	Skin senescence is induced by various factors including intrinsic aging and extrinsic aging. The current study compared the expression of microRNAs in young facial skin and senescent facial skin, and this study identified skin aging-related microRNAs. According to the results from a microRNA PCR Array, miR-124 was the microRNA that increased the most in senescent skin compared to young skin. Real-time PCR with a greater number of samples indicated that the increase in miR-124 levels in senescent facial skin was statistically significant. In situ hybridization was performed, and results indicated that the signal for miR-124 was evident in keratinocytes of senescent skin but not in those of young skin. The morphology of cultured normal human epidermal keratinocytes (NHEKs) transfected with a miR-124 mimic changed to an enlarged and irregular shape. In addition, the number of NHEKs positive for senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-gal) increased significantly as a result of the overexpression of the miR-124 mimic. The expression of miR-124 increased in UVB-irradiated NHEKs compared to controls in a dose-dependent manner. Expression of miR-124 in A431, a human cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) cell line, decreased significantly compared to that in NHEKs. Forced overexpression of miR-124 as a result of the transfection of a miR-124 mimic in A431 resulted in the significant suppression of the proportion of cancer cells. The current results indicated that miR-124 increases as a result of cell senescence and that it decreases during tumorigenesis. The effect of supplementation of miR-124 in an SCC cell line suggests that senescence induction therapy with microRNA may be a new therapeutic approach for treatment of SCC.	Aged, 80 and over;Aging/genetics/ physiology;Carcinoma, Squamous Cell/genetics/ metabolism;Cell Line, Tumor;Cells, Cultured;Child;Child, Preschool;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Infant;Infant, Newborn;Keratinocytes/metabolism/radiation effects;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Skin/ metabolism/radiation effects;Ultraviolet Rays
Environmental neurotoxicant manganese regulates exosome-mediated extracellular miRNAs in cell culture model of Parkinson's disease: Relevance to alpha-synuclein misfolding in metal neurotoxicity	D. S. Harischandra, et al.	2017	28450057	Many chronic neurodegenerative disorders share a common pathogenic mechanism involving the aggregation and deposition of misfolded proteins. Recently, it was shown that these aggregated proteins could be transferred from one cell to another via extracellular nanovesicles called exosomes. Initially thought to be a means of cellular waste removal, exosomes have since been discovered to actively participate in cell-to-cell communication. Importantly, various inflammatory and signaling molecules, as well as small RNAs are selectively packaged in these vesicles. Considering the important role of environmental manganese (Mn) in Parkinson's disease (PD)-like neurological disorders, we characterized the effect of Mn on exosome content and release using an MN9D dopaminergic cell model of PD, which was generated to stably express wild-type human alpha-synuclein (alphaSyn). Mn exposure (300muM MnCl2) for 24h induced the release of exosomes into the extracellular media prior to cytotoxicity, as determined by NanoSight particle analysis and electron microscopy. Strikingly, Western blot analysis revealed that Mn treatment in alphaSyn-expressing cells increases the protein Rab27a, which regulates the release of exosomes from cells. Moreover, next-generation sequencing showed more small RNAs in exosomes isolated from Mn-exposed cells than from control exosomes. Our miRNA profiling analysis led to the discovery of increased expression of certain miRNAs previously shown to regulate key biological pathways, including protein aggregation, autophagy, inflammation and hypoxia. Collectively, our results provide a glimpse of Mn's role in modulating extracellular miRNA content through exosomal release from dopaminergic neuronal cells and thus potentially contributing to progressive neurodegeneration. Further characterization of extracellular miRNAs and their targets will have major impacts on biomarker discovery and translational strategies for environmentally linked neurodegenerative diseases including PD.	Exosome;Extracellular RNAs;Manganese;Neurotoxicity;Parkinson diseases;Protein aggregation;Translational research;miRNA biomarkers;alpha-Synuclein
IRE1, a double-edged sword in pre-miRNA slicing and cell death	J. Hassler, et al.	2012	23153490	IRE1alpha, the most conserved transducer of the unfolded protein response, plays critical roles in many biological processes and cell fate decisions. Reporting in Science, Upton et al. (2012) broadened our understanding of IRE1alpha as a cell-death executioner, showing that upon ER stress, IRE1alpha degrades microRNAs to promote translation of caspase-2.	
Circulating MicroRNAs as easy-to-measure aging biomarkers in older breast cancer patients: correlation with chronological age but not with fitness/frailty status	S. Hatse, et al.	2014	25333486	Circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) hold great promise as easily accessible biomarkers for diverse (patho)physiological processes, including aging. We have compared miRNA expression profiles in cell-free blood from older versus young breast cancer patients, in order to identify "aging miRNAs" that can be used in the future to monitor the impact of chemotherapy on the patient's biological age. First, we assessed 175 miRNAs that may possibly be present in serum/plasma in an exploratory screening in 10 young and 10 older patients. The top-15 ranking miRNAs showing differential expression between young and older subjects were further investigated in an independent cohort consisting of another 10 young and 20 older subjects. Plasma levels of miR-20a-3p, miR-30b-5p, miR106b, miR191 and miR-301a were confirmed to show significant age-related decreases (all p</=0.004). The remaining miRNAs included in the validation study (miR-21, miR-210, miR-320b, miR-378, miR-423-5p, let-7d, miR-140-5p, miR-200c, miR-374a, miR376a) all showed similar trends as observed in the exploratory screening but these differences did not reach statistical significance. Interestingly, the age-associated miRNAs did not show differential expression between fit/healthy and non-fit/frail subjects within the older breast cancer cohort of the validation study and thus merit further investigation as true aging markers that not merely reflect frailty.	Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/blood/ genetics;Biomarkers, Tumor/ blood;Breast Neoplasms/ blood/genetics;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;MicroRNAs/ blood;Middle Aged;Physical Fitness
MicroRNAs, T follicular helper cells and inflammaging	J. E. Hawkes and R. M. O'Connell	2015	26452135		Aging/genetics/ immunology;Animals;Cell Differentiation/genetics/immunology;Humans;Inflammation/genetics/ immunology;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ immunology;Signal Transduction/genetics/immunology;T-Lymphocytes, Helper-Inducer/ immunology/metabolism;T cells;inflammation;microRNAs
Experimental reduction of miR-92a mimics arterial aging	S. Hazra, et al.	2016	27523918	MicroRNAs (miRs) are small non-coding RNAs that are important regulators of aging and cardiovascular diseases. MiR-92a is important in developmental vascular growth and tumorigenesis and two of its putative targets, tumor necrosis factor alpha receptor 1 (TNFR1) and collagen type 1, play a role in age-related arterial dysfunction. We hypothesized that reduced miR-92a expression contributes to age-related arterial dysfunction characterized by endothelial dysfunction and increased large artery stiffness. MiR-92a is reduced 39% (RT-PCR, p<0.05) in arteries of older adults compared to young adults. Similarly, there was a 40% reduction in miR-92a in aortas of old (29months, n=13) compared to young (6months, n=11) B6D2F1 mice, an established model of vascular aging. To determine if reduced miR-92a contributes to arterial dysfunction; miR-92a was inhibited in vivo in young mice using antagomirs (I.P., 4wks). Antagomir treatment was associated with a concomitant 48% increase in TNFR1 (Western blot, p<0.05), 19% increase in type 1 collagen (immunohistochemistry, p<0.01), and a reduction in endothelial dependent dilation (max dilation: 93+/-1 vs. 73+/-5%, p<0.01) in response to acetylcholine (ACh, 10(-9) to 10(-4)M). Treatment with the nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor, L-NAME (10(-4)M), revealed that impaired ACh dilation after antagomir treatment resulted from reduced NO bioavailability. Inhibition of miR-92a also increased arterial stiffness (pulse wave velocity, 309+/-13 vs. 484+/-52cm/s, p<0.05). Together, these results suggest that experimental reductions in arterial miR-92a partially mimic the arterial aging phenotype and we speculate that modulating miR-92a may provide a therapeutic strategy to improve age-related arterial dysfunction.	Age related arterial dysfunction;Endothelial dependent dilation;MicroRNA
Bioinformatics and Microarray Analysis of miRNAs in Aged Female Mice Model Implied New Molecular Mechanisms for Impaired Fracture Healing	B. He, et al.	2016	27527150	Impaired fracture healing in aged females is still a challenge in clinics. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play important roles in fracture healing. This study aims to identify the miRNAs that potentially contribute to the impaired fracture healing in aged females. Transverse femoral shaft fractures were created in adult and aged female mice. At post-fracture 0-, 2- and 4-week, the fracture sites were scanned by micro computed tomography to confirm that the fracture healing was impaired in aged female mice and the fracture calluses were collected for miRNA microarray analysis. A total of 53 significantly differentially expressed miRNAs and 5438 miRNA-target gene interactions involved in bone fracture healing were identified. A novel scoring system was designed to analyze the miRNA contribution to impaired fracture healing (RCIFH). Using this method, 11 novel miRNAs were identified to impair fracture healing at 2- or 4-week post-fracture. Thereafter, function analysis of target genes was performed for miRNAs with high RCIFH values. The results showed that high RCIFH miRNAs in aged female mice might impair fracture healing not only by down-regulating angiogenesis-, chondrogenesis-, and osteogenesis-related pathways, but also by up-regulating osteoclastogenesis-related pathway, which implied the essential roles of these high RCIFH miRNAs in impaired fracture healing in aged females, and might promote the discovery of novel therapeutic strategies.	Aging;Animals;Cell Line;Chondrogenesis;Computational Biology;Female;Fracture Healing;Gene Regulatory Networks;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Osteoporosis/metabolism/pathology;RNA Interference;Transcriptome;bioinformatics;impaired fracture healing;miRNA
The microRNA-218 and ROBO-1 signaling axis correlates with the lymphatic metastasis of pancreatic cancer	H. He, et al.	2013	23733161	Pancreatic cancer is known for its poor prognosis and early lymphatic metastasis is a notable characteristic. microRNAs (miRNAs) have been shown to be involved in the initiation and progression of pancreatic cancer. We, therefore, established a screening strategy to find miRNAs related to the lymphatic metastasis of pancreatic cancer and explored the target genes of miRNAs. miRNA array profiles were analyzed in tissue samples [pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) and matched adjacent benign tissues (MAT)] and cell lines (BxPC-3-LN and BxPC-3). Combined analysis of profiling data from tissue samples and cell lines was used to identify miRNAs related to the lymphatic metastasis of pancreatic cancer. The expression levels of miRNAs were confirmed by realtime reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) in tissue samples and cell lines. The correlation between miRNAs and clinicopathological characteristics was investigated. The expression features of miRNAs in pancreatic cancer, precursor lesions and metastatic lymph nodes were characterized by in situ hybridization (ISH). Predicted target genes of miRNAs were validated by RT-PCR and the protein levels of target genes were revealed by western blotting. Seventy and 63 miRNAs were differentially expressed in pancreatic cancer and BxPC-3-LN, compared to MAT and BxPC-3, respectively. Combined microarray analysis found 4 co-differentially expressed miRNAs (miRNA-663, miRNA-145, miRNA-218 and let-7) related to the lymphatic metastasis of pancreatic cancer. miRNA-218 was significantly downregulated in BxPC-3-LN (fold-change>10) and the expression levels of miRNA-218 were confirmed by RT-PCR. The group with lymph node metastasis and the elder group (age>64) showed lower expression of miRNA-218 (P=0.003 and 0.002), compared to patients without lymph nodes metastasis and patients in the younger group (age</=64), respectively. The expression of miRNA218 showed a decreasing trend from normal acinar/ductal epithelium, intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN), pancreatic cancer to metastatic lymph nodes by ISH. Among 8 predicted target genes of miRNA-218, rodent bone (ROBO-1) was confirmed to be upregulated in both mRNA and protein levels in pancreatic cancer. In conclusion, we established a screening strategy based on microarray results and found miRNA-218 to be a notable gene related to lymphatic metastasis of pancreatic cancer. Downregulation of miRNA-218 and upregulation of ROBO-1 were first demonstrated in pancreatic cancer. The miRNA-218 and ROBO-1 signaling axis may contribute to the lymphatic metastasis of pancreatic cancer.	Animals;Carcinoma, Pancreatic Ductal/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Cell Line, Tumor;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;Humans;Lymph Nodes/pathology;Lymphatic Metastasis;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Pancreatic Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism/ pathology;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Receptors, Immunologic/ genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Up-Regulation
Comprehensive investigation of aberrant microRNAs expression in cells culture model of MnCl2-induced neurodegenerative disease	R. He, et al.	2017	28302480	Manganese (Mn) is required in various human physiological processes. Excessive Mn exposure causes manganism, a progressive neurodegenerative disorder similar to idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD). However, the detailed mechanism of Mn-induced neurotoxicity is not yet fully understood. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play important roles in gene expression regulation, and miRNA expression profile provides additional biological and prognostic information of diseases. In our study, RNA sequencing was performed to profile miRNAs in the SH-SY5Y cells following MnCl2 treatment. Expressions of 73 miRNAs were altered following excessive Mn treatment. Furthermore, has-miR-4306 was identified to target 3'UTR of ATP13A2 (PARK9) directly. Inhibition of has-miR-4306 efficiently restored Mn-induced cytotoxicity. Thus, for the first time, we revealed the miRNA effects of Mn ions to neuron cells, highlighted the involvement of miRNA regulation in neurodegeneration caused by Mn exposure, and provided a potential application of miRNAs in future therapeutic intervention.	Base Sequence;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Survival/drug effects;Chlorides/ toxicity;Dose-Response Relationship, Drug;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Manganese Compounds;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Models, Biological;Neurons/ drug effects/metabolism/pathology;Parkinson Disease/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Proton-Translocating ATPases/antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics/metabolism;RNA, Ribosomal/genetics/metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics/metabolism;RNA, Small Nucleolar/genetics/metabolism;RNA, Transfer/genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Atp13a2;Neurodegeneration;RNA-seq;microRNA;microRNA-4306
[Attach importance to eye epigenetic research]	S. K. He and X. H. Li	2013	24257350	Growing evidences show that the pathogenesis of majority human diseases is influenced by the abnormalities of epigenetic and genetic mechanism. The major epigenetic factors such as DNA methylation, histone modifications, and microRNA (miRNA) interact with each other to regulate gene expression and determine cell phenotype.Epigenetics is currently become a hot topic of biomedical research, which focus on how whole genome is regulated by epigenetics mechanism and its roles in life development, senescence, regeneration, tumorgenesis and the pathogenesis of complex disease. The occurrence of variety of eye diseases may be mediated through the interaction of environmental and genetic factors which in turn regulated by epigenetic mechanisms.Emphasizing the epigenetic research in eye may provide a new insight of the understanding of pathogenesis of complex eye disease and a novel approach of its treatment.	DNA Methylation;Epigenesis, Genetic;Eye Diseases/ genetics;Humans;MicroRNAs
Identification and characterization of microRNAs by high through-put sequencing in mesenchymal stem cells and bone tissue from mice of age-related osteoporosis	X. He, et al.	2013	23991002	The functional deficiencies of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) may contribute to the aging process and age-related diseases, such as osteoporosis. Although it has been reported that microRNAs (miRNAs) played an important role in mechanisms of gene regulation of aging, and their expression profiles in MSCs osteogenic differentiation were established in recent years, but it is still elusive for the dynamic patterns of miRNAs in aging process. Importantly, the miRNAs in aged bone tissue had not been yet reported so far. Here, we combined high through-put sequencing with computational techniques to detect miRNAs dynamics in MSCs and bone tissue of age-related osteoporosis. Among the detected miRNAs, 59 identified miRNAs in MSCs and 159 in bone showed significantly differential expressions. And more importantly, there existed 8 up-regulated and 30 down-regulated miRNAs in both MSCs and bone during the aging process, with the majority having a trend of down-regulation. Furthermore, after target prediction and KEGG pathway analysis, we found that their targeted genes were significantly enriched in pathways in cancer, which are complex genetic networks, comprise of a number of age-related pathways. These results strongly suggest that these analyzed miRNAs may be negatively involved in age-related osteoporosis, given that most of them showed a decreased expression, which could lay a good foundation for further functional analysis of these miRNAs in age-related osteoporosis.	Age Factors;Animals;Bone Marrow Cells/metabolism;Bone and Bones/ metabolism;Cells, Cultured;Gene Expression Profiling;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing/ methods;Male;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Osteogenesis/genetics;Osteoporosis/ genetics;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction/genetics
Mechanosensitive microRNA-181b Regulates Aortic Valve Endothelial Matrix Degradation by Targeting TIMP3	J. M. Heath, et al.	2017	28236165	Calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) is a major cause of morbidity in the aging population, but the underlying mechanisms of its progression remain poorly understood. Aortic valve calcification preferentially occurs on the fibrosa, which is subjected to disturbed flow. The side-specific progression of the disease is characterized by inflammation, calcific lesions, and extracellular matrix (ECM) degradation. Here, we explored the role of mechanosensitive microRNA-181b and its downstream targets in human aortic valve endothelial cells (HAVECs). Mechanistically, miR-181b is upregulated in OS and fibrosa, and it targets TIMP3, SIRT1, and GATA6, correlated with increased gelatinase/MMP activity. Overexpression of miR-181b led to decreased TIMP3 and exacerbated MMP activity as shown by gelatinase assay, and miR-181b inhibition decreased gelatinase activity through the repression of TIMP3 levels. Luciferase assay showed specific binding of miR-181b to the TIMP3 gene. Overexpression of miR-181b in HAVECs subjected to either LS or OS increased MMP activity, and miR-181b inhibition abrogated shear-sensitive MMP activity. These studies suggest that targeting this shear-dependent miRNA may provide a novel noninvasive treatment for CAVD.	Aortic valve;Endothelium;Extracellular matrix;Matrix metalloproteinase;Shear stress;microRNA
MicroRNA regulation of Alzheimer's Amyloid precursor protein expression	S. S. Hebert, et al.	2009	19110058	Gene dosage effects of Amyloid precursor protein (APP) can cause familial AD. Recent evidence suggest that microRNA (miRNA) pathways, implicated in gene transcriptional control, could be involved in the development of sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD). We therefore investigated whether miRNAs could participate in the regulation of APP gene expression. We show that miRNAs belonging to the miR-20a family (that is, miR-20a, miR-17-5p and miR-106b) could regulate APP expression in vitro and at the endogenous level in neuronal cell lines. A tight correlation between these miRNAs and APP was found during brain development and in differentiating neurons. We thus identify miRNAs as novel endogenous regulators of APP expression, suggesting that variations in miRNA expression could contribute to changes in APP expression in the brain during development and disease. This possibility is further corroborated by the observation that a statistically significant decrease in miR-106b expression was found in sporadic AD patients.	Actins/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/ genetics;Animals;Blotting, Northern;Blotting, Western;Brain/embryology/growth & development/physiology;Cell Line;Cells, Cultured;Densitometry;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Neurogenesis;Neurons/ physiology;Protease Nexins;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Receptors, Cell Surface/ genetics;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Transfection
Loss of microRNA cluster miR-29a/b-1 in sporadic Alzheimer's disease correlates with increased BACE1/beta-secretase expression	S. S. Hebert, et al.	2008	18434550	Although the role of APP and PSEN genes in genetic Alzheimer's disease (AD) cases is well established, fairly little is known about the molecular mechanisms affecting Abeta generation in sporadic AD. Deficiency in Abeta clearance is certainly a possibility, but increased expression of proteins like APP or BACE1/beta-secretase may also be associated with the disease. We therefore investigated changes in microRNA (miRNA) expression profiles of sporadic AD patients and found that several miRNAs potentially involved in the regulation of APP and BACE1 expression appeared to be decreased in diseased brain. We show here that miR-29a, -29b-1, and -9 can regulate BACE1 expression in vitro. The miR-29a/b-1 cluster was significantly (and AD-dementia-specific) decreased in AD patients displaying abnormally high BACE1 protein. Similar correlations between expression of this cluster and BACE1 were found during brain development and in primary neuronal cultures. Finally, we provide evidence for a potential causal relationship between miR-29a/b-1 expression and Abeta generation in a cell culture model. We propose that loss of specific miRNAs can contribute to increased BACE1 and Abeta levels in sporadic AD.	Alzheimer Disease/ enzymology/genetics;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/ genetics/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/metabolism;Animals;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/ genetics/metabolism;Brain/metabolism/pathology;Cell Line;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Up-Regulation/genetics
Genetic ablation of Dicer in adult forebrain neurons results in abnormal tau hyperphosphorylation and neurodegeneration	S. S. Hebert, et al.	2010	20660113	Type III RNase Dicer is responsible for the maturation and function of microRNA (miRNA) molecules in the cell. It is now well-documented that Dicer and the fine-tuning of the miRNA gene network are important for neuronal integrity. However, the underlying mechanisms involved in neuronal death, particularly in the adult brain, remain poorly defined. Here we show that the absence of Dicer in the adult forebrain is accompanied by a mixed neurodegenerative phenotype. Although neuronal loss is observed in the hippocampus, cellular shrinkage is predominant in the cortex. Interestingly, neuronal degeneration coincides with the hyperphosphorylation of endogenous tau at several epitopes previously associated with neurofibrillary pathology. Transcriptome analysis of enzymes involved in tau phosphorylation identified ERK1 as one of the candidate kinases responsible for this event in vivo. We further demonstrate that miRNAs belonging to the miR-15 family are potent regulators of ERK1 expression in mouse neuronal cells and co-expressed with ERK1/2 in vivo. Finally, we show that miR-15a is specifically downregulated in Alzheimer's disease brain. In summary, these results support the hypothesis that changes in the miRNA network may contribute to a neurodegenerative phenotype by affecting tau phosphorylation.	Alzheimer Disease/genetics/metabolism;Animals;Brain/metabolism/pathology;Epitopes;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Medial Forebrain Bundle;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase 3/genetics/ metabolism;Models, Animal;Nerve Degeneration/metabolism/ pathology;Neurodegenerative Diseases/physiopathology;Neurons/enzymology/metabolism/pathology;Phosphorylation/ physiology;Polymerase Chain Reaction;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional;Ribonuclease III/ metabolism;tau Proteins/genetics/metabolism
MicroRNAs and the Regulation of Tau Metabolism	S. S. Hebert, et al.	2012	22720189	Abnormal regulation of tau phosphorylation and/or alternative splicing is associated with the development of a large (>20) group of neurodegenerative disorders collectively known as tauopathies, the most common being Alzheimer's disease. Despite intensive research, little is known about the molecular mechanisms that participate in the transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulation of endogenous tau, especially in neurons. Recently, we showed that mice lacking Dicer in the forebrain displayed progressive neurodegeneration accompanied by disease-like changes in tau phosphorylation and splicing. Dicer is a key enzyme in the biogenesis of microRNAs (miRNAs), small noncoding RNAs that function as part of the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC) to repress gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. We identified miR-16 and miR-132 as putative endogenous modulators of neuronal tau phosphorylation and tau exon 10 splicing, respectively. Interestingly, these miRNAs have been implicated in cell survival and function, whereas changes in miR-16/132 levels correlate with tau pathology in human neurodegenerative disorders. Thus, understanding how miRNA networks influence tau metabolism and possibly other biological systems might provide important clues into the molecular causes of tauopathies, particularly the more common but less understood sporadic forms.	
A study of small RNAs from cerebral neocortex of pathology-verified Alzheimer's disease, dementia with lewy bodies, hippocampal sclerosis, frontotemporal lobar dementia, and non-demented human controls	S. S. Hebert, et al.	2013	23403535	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small (20-22 nucleotides) regulatory non-coding RNAs that strongly influence gene expression. Most prior studies addressing the role of miRNAs in neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) have focused on individual diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), making disease-to-disease comparisons impossible. Using RNA deep sequencing, we sought to analyze in detail the small RNAs (including miRNAs) in the temporal neocortex gray matter from non-demented controls (n = 2), AD (n = 5), dementia with Lewy bodies (n = 4), hippocampal sclerosis of aging (n = 4), and frontotemporal lobar dementia (FTLD) (n = 5) cases, together accounting for the most prevalent ND subtypes. All cases had short postmortem intervals, relatively high-quality RNA, and state-of-the-art neuropathological diagnoses. The resulting data (over 113 million reads in total, averaging 5.6 million reads per sample) and secondary expression analyses constitute an unprecedented look into the human cerebral cortical miRNome at a nucleotide resolution. While we find no apparent changes in isomiR or miRNA editing patterns in correlation with ND pathology, our results validate and extend previous miRNA profiling studies with regard to quantitative changes in NDs. In agreement with this idea, we provide independent cohort validation for changes in miR-132 expression levels in AD (n = 8) and FTLD (n = 14) cases when compared to controls (n = 8). The identification of common and ND-specific putative novel brain miRNAs and/or short-hairpin molecules is also presented. The challenge now is to better understand the impact of these and other alterations on neuronal gene expression networks and neuropathologies.	Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/physiology;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/ metabolism;Amino Acid Sequence;Blotting, Northern;Cohort Studies;Computational Biology;Data Interpretation, Statistical;Female;Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration/ genetics/ metabolism;Hippocampus/ pathology;Humans;Lewy Body Disease/ genetics/ metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics;Middle Aged;Molecular Sequence Data;Neocortex/ chemistry;Plaque, Amyloid/pathology;RNA, Small Cytoplasmic/chemistry/ genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Sclerosis/pathology;Sequence Analysis, RNA
MicroRNA targeting of neurotropic flavivirus: effective control of virus escape and reversion to neurovirulent phenotype	B. L. Heiss, et al.	2012	22419812	Neurotropic flaviviruses can efficiently replicate in the developing and mature central nervous systems (CNS) of mice causing lethal encephalitis. Insertion of a single copy of a target for brain-expressed microRNAs (miRNAs) in the 3' noncoding region (3'NCR) of the flavivirus genome (chimeric tick-borne encephalitis virus/dengue virus) abolished virus neurovirulence in the mature mouse CNS. However, in the developing CNS of highly permissive suckling mice, the miRNA-targeted viruses can revert to a neurovirulent phenotype by accumulating deletions or mutations within the miRNA target sequence. Virus escape from miRNA-mediated suppression in the developing CNS was markedly diminished by increasing the number of miRNA target sites and by extending the distance between these sites in the virus genome. Insertion of multiple miRNA targets into the 3'NCR altered virus neuroinvasiveness, decreased neurovirulence and neuroinflammatory responses, and prevented neurodegeneration without loss of immunogenicity. Although the onset of encephalitis was delayed, a small number of suckling mice still succumbed to lethal intracerebral infection with the miRNA-targeted viruses. Sequence analysis of brain isolates from moribund mice revealed that the viruses escaped from miRNA-mediated suppression exclusively through the deletion of miRNA targets and viral genome sequence located between the two miRNA targets separated by the greatest distance. These findings offer a general strategy to control the reversion of virus to a virulent phenotype: a simultaneous miRNA targeting of the viral genome at many different functionally important regions could prevent virus escape from miRNA-based attenuation, since a deletion of the targeted genomic sequences located between the inserted miRNA binding sites would be lethal for the virus.	Animals;Base Sequence;Central Nervous System Diseases/ virology;Dengue Virus/chemistry/ genetics/ pathogenicity/physiology;Encephalitis Viruses, Tick-Borne/chemistry/ genetics/ pathogenicity/physiology;Flavivirus Infections/ virology;Gene Targeting;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Nucleic Acid Conformation;Phenotype;Virulence;Virus Release;Virus Replication
microRNA-132/212 deficiency enhances Abeta production and senile plaque deposition in Alzheimer's disease triple transgenic mice	J. Hernandez-Rapp, et al.	2016	27484949	The abnormal regulation of amyloid-beta (Abeta) metabolism (e.g., production, cleavage, clearance) plays a central role in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Among endogenous factors believed to participate in AD progression are the small regulatory non-coding microRNAs (miRs). In particular, the miR-132/212 cluster is severely reduced in the AD brain. In previous studies we have shown that miR-132/212 deficiency in mice leads to impaired memory and enhanced Tau pathology as seen in AD patients. Here we demonstrate that the genetic deletion of miR-132/212 promotes Abeta production and amyloid (senile) plaque formation in triple transgenic AD (3xTg-AD) mice. Using RNA-Seq and bioinformatics, we identified genes of the miR-132/212 network with documented roles in the regulation of Abeta metabolism, including Tau, Mapk, and Sirt1. Consistent with these findings, we show that the modulation of miR-132, or its target Sirt1, can directly regulate Abeta production in cells. Finally, both miR-132 and Sirt1 levels correlated with Abeta load in humans. Overall, our results support the hypothesis that the miR-132/212 network, including Sirt1 and likely other target genes, contributes to abnormal Abeta metabolism and senile plaque deposition in AD. This study strengthens the importance of miR-dependent networks in neurodegenerative disorders, and opens the door to multifactorial drug targets of AD by targeting Abeta and Tau.	
Normal midbrain dopaminergic neuron development and function in miR-133b mutant mice	M. P. Heyer, et al.	2012	22875923	Midbrain dopaminergic (mDA) neurons control movement and emotion, and their degeneration leads to motor and cognitive defects in Parkinson's disease (PD). miR-133b is a conserved microRNA that is thought to regulate mDA neuron differentiation by targeting Pitx3, a transcription factor required for appropriate development of mDA substantia nigra neurons. Moreover, miR-133b has been found to be depleted in the midbrain of PD patients. However, the function of miR-133b in the intact midbrain has not been determined. Here we show that miR-133b null mice have normal numbers of mDA neurons during development and aging. Dopamine levels are unchanged in the striatum, while expression of dopaminergic genes, including Pitx3, is also unaffected. Finally, motor coordination and both spontaneous and psychostimulant-induced locomotion are unaltered in miR-133b null mice, suggesting that miR-133b does not play a significant role in mDA neuron development and maintenance in vivo.	Age Factors;Analysis of Variance;Animals;Animals, Newborn;Behavior, Animal/ physiology;Cell Count;Choline O-Acetyltransferase/metabolism;Chromatography, Liquid;Dark Adaptation/genetics;Dopamine/ metabolism;Dopaminergic Neurons/ physiology;Electrochemical Techniques;Exploratory Behavior/physiology;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/ genetics;Glutamate Decarboxylase/metabolism;Homeodomain Proteins/metabolism;Male;Maze Learning/physiology;Mesencephalon/ cytology/growth & development;Mice;Mice, Knockout;Mice, Neurologic Mutants;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Microdialysis;Motor Activity/genetics;Psychomotor Performance/physiology;Stereotaxic Techniques;Transcription Factors/metabolism;Tyrosine 3-Monooxygenase/metabolism
Resveratrol Inhibits Aortic Root Dilatation in the Fbn1C1039G/+ Marfan Mouse Model	S. Hibender, et al.	2016	27283746	OBJECTIVE: Marfan syndrome (MFS) is a connective tissue disorder caused by mutations in the fibrillin-1 gene. Patients with MFS are at risk of aortic aneurysm formation and dissection. Usually, blood pressure-lowering drugs are used to reduce aortic events; however, this is not sufficient for most patients. In the aorta of smooth muscle cell-specific sirtuin-1-deficient mice, spontaneous aneurysm formation and senescence are observed. Resveratrol is known to enhance sirtuin-1 activity and to reduce senescence, which prompted us to investigate the effectiveness of resveratrol in inhibition of aortic dilatation in the Fbn1(C1039G/+) MFS mouse model. APPROACH AND RESULTS: Aortic senescence strongly correlates with aortic root dilatation rate in MFS mice. However, although resveratrol inhibits aortic dilatation, it only shows a trend toward reduced aortic senescence. Resveratrol enhances nuclear localization of sirtuin-1 in the vessel wall and, in contrast to losartan, does not affect leukocyte infiltration nor activation of SMAD2 and extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1/2 (ERK1/2). Interestingly, specific sirtuin-1 activation (SRT1720) or inhibition (sirtinol) in MFS mice does not affect aortic root dilatation rate, although senescence is changed. Resveratrol reduces aortic elastin breaks and decreases micro-RNA-29b expression coinciding with enhanced antiapoptotic Bcl-2 expression and decreased number of terminal apoptotic cells. In cultured smooth muscle cells, the resveratrol effect on micro-RNA-29b downregulation is endothelial cell and nuclear factor kappaB-dependent. CONCLUSIONS: Resveratrol inhibits aortic root dilatation in MFS mice by promoting elastin integrity and smooth muscle cell survival, involving downregulation of the aneurysm-related micro-RNA-29b in the aorta. On the basis of these data, resveratrol holds promise as a novel intervention strategy for patients with MFS.	Active Transport, Cell Nucleus;Animals;Aorta/ drug effects/metabolism/pathology;Aortic Aneurysm/etiology/metabolism/pathology/ prevention & control;Apoptosis/drug effects;Cell Aging/drug effects;Cells, Cultured;Dilatation, Pathologic;Disease Models, Animal;Elastin/metabolism;Female;Fibrillin-1/ genetics;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells/drug effects/metabolism/pathology;Humans;Male;Marfan Syndrome/ drug therapy/genetics/metabolism;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Mutant Strains;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Muscle, Smooth, Vascular/drug effects/metabolism/pathology;Myocytes, Smooth Muscle/drug effects/metabolism/pathology;Phenotype;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2/metabolism;Sirtuin 1/metabolism;Stilbenes/ pharmacology;Marfan syndrome;aortic aneurysm;extracellular matrix;micro-RNAs;resveratrol;sirtuin-1
Pathogenic microbes, the microbiome, and Alzheimer's disease (AD)	J. M. Hill, et al.	2014	24982633		Alzheimer's disease;miRNA;microbiome;prion;virus replication
Induction of the pro-inflammatory NF-kB-sensitive miRNA-146a by human neurotrophic viruses	J. M. Hill, et al.	2015	25691883		Alzheimer's disease (AD);aluminum sulfate;ebola virus;innate-immune response;messenger RNA (mRNA) and microRNA (miRNA);microRNA-146a;neuroinflammation;prion disease
HSV-1 infection of human brain cells induces miRNA-146a and Alzheimer-type inflammatory signaling	J. M. Hill, et al.	2009	19801956	Herpes simplex virus type-1 (HSV-1) infection of human brain cells induces changes in gene expression favorable to the propagation of the infecting agent and detrimental to the function of the host cells. We report that infection of human primary neural cells with a high phenotypic reactivator HSV-1 (17syn+) induces upregulation of a brain-enriched microRNA (miRNA)-146a that is associated with proinflammatory signaling in stressed brain cells and Alzheimer's disease. Expression of cytoplasmic phospholipase A2, the inducible prostaglandin synthase cyclooxygenase-2, and the neuroinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta were each upregulated. A known miRNA-146a target in the brain, complement factor H, was downregulated. These data suggest a role for HSV-1-induced miRNA-146a in the evasion of HSV-1 from the complement system, and the activation of key elements of the arachidonic acid cascade known to contribute to Alzheimer-type neuropathological change.	Brain/ cytology;Cells, Cultured;Complement Factor H/genetics/metabolism;Cyclooxygenase 2/genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Viral/ physiology;Herpes Simplex/ pathology;Herpesvirus 1, Human/genetics/metabolism;Humans;Interleukin-1beta/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Neurons/ metabolism/virology;Phospholipases A2;Signal Transduction/ physiology;Time Factors
Growth differentiation factor 6 derived from mesenchymal stem/stromal cells reduces age-related functional deterioration in multiple tissues	D. Hisamatsu, et al.	2016	27311402	The senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) has attracted attention as a mechanism that connects cellular senescence to tissue dysfunction, and specific SASP factors have been identified as systemic pro-aging factors. However, little is known about the age-dependent changes in the secretory properties of stem cells. Young, but not old, mesenchymal stem/stromal cells (MSCs) are a well-known source of critical regenerative factors, but the identity of these factors remains elusive. In this study, we identified growth differentiation factor 6 (Gdf6; also known as Bmp13 and CDMP-2) as a regenerative factor secreted from young MSCs. The expression of specific secretory factors, including Gdf6, was regulated by the microRNA (miRNA) miR-17, whose expression declined with age. Upregulation of Gdf6 restored the osteogenic capacity of old MSCs in vitro and exerted positive effects in vivo on aging-associated pathologies such as reduced lymphopoiesis, insufficient muscle repair, reduced numbers of neural progenitors in the brain, and chronic inflammation. Our results suggest that manipulation of miRNA could enable control of the SASP, and that regenerative factors derived from certain types of young cells could be used to treat geriatric diseases.	Gdf6;Sasp;aging;mesenchymal stem cells;miR-17;stem cell aging
DAF-12 regulates a connected network of genes to ensure robust developmental decisions	D. Hochbaum, et al.	2011	21814518	The nuclear receptor DAF-12 has roles in normal development, the decision to pursue dauer development in unfavorable conditions, and the modulation of adult aging. Despite the biologic importance of DAF-12, target genes for this receptor are largely unknown. To identify DAF-12 targets, we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by hybridization to whole-genome tiling arrays. We identified 1,175 genomic regions to be bound in vivo by DAF-12, and these regions are enriched in known DAF-12 binding motifs and act as DAF-12 response elements in transfected cells and in transgenic worms. The DAF-12 target genes near these binding sites include an extensive network of interconnected heterochronic and microRNA genes. We also identify the genes encoding components of the miRISC, which is required for the control of target genes by microRNA, as a target of DAF-12 regulation. During reproductive development, many of these target genes are misregulated in daf-12(0) mutants, but this only infrequently results in developmental phenotypes. In contrast, we and others have found that null daf-12 mutations enhance the phenotypes of many miRISC and heterochronic target genes. We also find that environmental fluctuations significantly strengthen the weak heterochronic phenotypes of null daf-12 alleles. During diapause, DAF-12 represses the expression of many heterochronic and miRISC target genes, and prior work has demonstrated that dauer formation can suppress the heterochronic phenotypes of many of these target genes in post-dauer development. Together these data are consistent with daf-12 acting to ensure developmental robustness by committing the animal to adult or dauer developmental programs despite variable internal or external conditions.	Animals;Animals, Genetically Modified;Base Sequence;Binding Sites/genetics;Caenorhabditis elegans/ genetics/growth & development/ metabolism;Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins/ genetics/ metabolism;Chromatin Immunoprecipitation;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Gene Regulatory Networks/ genetics;HEK293 Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Mutation/genetics;Receptors, Cytoplasmic and Nuclear/ genetics/ metabolism
Implication of the miR-184 and miR-204 competitive RNA network in control of mouse secondary cataract	A. Hoffmann, et al.	2012	22270329	The high recurrence rate of secondary cataract (SC) is caused by the intrinsic differentiation activity of residual lens epithelial cells after extra-capsular lens removal. The objective of this study was to identify changes in the microRNA (miRNA) expression profile during mouse SC formation and to selectively manipulate miRNA expression for potential therapeutic intervention. To model SC, mouse cataract surgery was performed and temporal changes in the miRNA expression pattern were determined by microarray analysis. To study the potential SC counterregulative effect of miRNAs, a lens capsular bag in vitro model was used. Within the first 3 wks after cataract surgery, microarray analysis demonstrated SC-associated expression pattern changes of 55 miRNAs. Of the identified miRNAs, miR-184 and miR-204 were chosen for further investigations. Manipulation of miRNA expression by the miR-184 inhibitor (anti-miR-184) and the precursor miRNA for miR-204 (pre-miR-204) attenuated SC-associated expansion and migration of lens epithelial cells and signs of epithelial to mesenchymal transition such as alpha-smooth muscle actin expression. In addition, pre-miR-204 attenuated SC-associated expression of the transcription factor Meis homeobox 2 (MEIS2). Examination of miRNA target binding sites for miR-184 and miR-204 revealed an extensive range of predicted target mRNA sequences that were also a target to a complex network of other SC-associated miRNAs with possible opposing functions. The identification of the SC-specific miRNA expression pattern together with the observed in vitro attenuation of SC by anti-miR-184 and pre-miR-204 suggest that miR-184 and miR-204 play a significant role in the control of SC formation in mice that is most likely regulated by a complex competitive RNA network.	Actins/metabolism;Animals;Blotting, Western;Cataract/ metabolism;Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel;Female;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Microarray Analysis
Comparison of senescence-associated miRNAs in primary skin and lung fibroblasts	A. C. Holly, et al.	2015	25700689	MicroRNAs are non-coding RNAs with roles in many cellular processes. Tissue-specific miRNA profiles associated with senescence have been described for several cell and tissue types. We aimed to characterise miRNAs involved in core, rather than tissue-specific, senescence pathways by assessment of common miRNA expression differences in two different cell types, with follow-up of predicted targets in human peripheral blood. MicroRNAs were profiled in early and late passage primary lung and skin fibroblasts to identify commonly-deregulated miRNAs. Expression changes of their bioinformatically-predicted mRNA targets were then assessed in both cell types and in human peripheral blood from elderly participants in the InCHIANTI study. 57/178 and 26/492 microRNAs were altered in late passage skin and lung cells respectively. Three miRNAs (miR-92a, miR-15b and miR-125a-3p) were altered in both tissues. 14 mRNA targets of the common miRNAs were expressed in lung and skin fibroblasts, of which two demonstrated up-regulation in late passage skin and lung cells (LYST; p = 0.02 [skin] and 0.02 [lung] INMT; p = 0.03 [skin] and 0.04 [lung]). ZMPSTE24 and LHFPL2 demonstrated altered expression in late passage skin cells only (p = 0.01 and 0.05 respectively). LHFPL2 was also positively correlated with age in peripheral blood (p value = 6.6 x 10(-5)). We find that the majority of senescence-associated miRNAs demonstrate tissue-specific effects. However, miRNAs showing common effects across tissue types may represent those associated with core, rather than tissue-specific senescence processes.	Age Factors;Aging/blood/genetics/ metabolism;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Line;Cell Proliferation;Computational Biology;Fibroblasts/ metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Lung/cytology/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Skin/cytology/ metabolism;Time Factors
Laminin alpha2 Chain-Deficiency is Associated with microRNA Deregulation in Skeletal Muscle and Plasma	J. Holmberg, et al.	2014	25071564	microRNAs (miRNAs) are widespread regulators of gene expression, but little is known of their potential roles in congenital muscular dystrophy type 1A (MDC1A). MDC1A is a severe form of muscular dystrophy caused by mutations in the gene encoding laminin alpha2 chain. To gain insight into the pathophysiological roles of miRNAs associated with MDC1A pathology, laminin alpha2 chain-deficient mice were evaluated by quantitative PCR. We demonstrate that expression of muscle-specific miR-1, miR-133a, and miR-206 is deregulated in laminin alpha2 chain-deficient muscle. Furthermore, expression of miR-223 and miR-21, associated with immune cell infiltration and fibrosis, respectively, is altered. Finally, we show that plasma levels of muscle-specific miRNAs are markedly elevated in laminin alpha2 chain-deficient mice and partially normalized in response to proteasome inhibition therapy. Altogether, our data suggest important roles for miRNAs in MDC1A pathology and we propose plasma levels of muscle-specific miRNAs as promising biomarkers for the progression of MDC1A.	Mdc1a;fibrosis;inflammation;laminin;microRNA;muscular dystrophy
Functional microRNAs in Alzheimer's disease and cancer: differential regulation of common mechanisms and pathways	K. N. Holohan, et al.	2012	23335942	Two of the main research priorities in the United States are cancer and neurodegenerative diseases, which are attributed to abnormal patterns of cellular behavior. MicroRNAs (miRNA) have been implicated as regulators of cellular metabolism, and thus are an active topic of investigation in both disease areas. There is presently a more extensive body of work on the role of miRNAs in cancer compared to neurodegenerative diseases, and therefore it may be useful to examine whether there is any concordance between the functional roles of miRNAs in these diseases. As a case study, the roles of miRNAs in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and their functions in various cancers will be compared. A number of miRNA expression patterns are altered in individuals with AD compared with healthy older adults. Among these, some have also been shown to correlate with neuropathological changes including plaque and tangle accumulation, as well as expression levels of other molecules known to be involved in disease pathology. Importantly, these miRNAs have also been shown to have differential expression and or functional roles in various types of cancer. To examine possible intersections between miRNA functions in cancer and AD, we review the current literature on these miRNAs in cancer and AD, focusing on their roles in known biological pathways. We propose a pathway-driven model in which some molecular processes show an inverse relationship between cancer and neurodegenerative disease (e.g., proliferation and apoptosis) whereas others are more parallel in their activity (e.g., immune activation and inflammation). A critical review of these and other molecular mechanisms in cancer may shed light on the pathophysiology of AD, and highlight key areas for future research. Conclusions from this work may be extended to other neurodegenerative diseases for which some molecular pathways have been identified but which have not yet been extensively researched for miRNA involvement.	Alzheimer's disease;cancer;microRNA;pathways
Reproducible pattern of microRNA in normal human skin	L. M. Holst, et al.	2010	20201961	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate cell growth, differentiation and apoptosis via specific targeting of messenger RNA (mRNA). Aberrant mRNA expression contributes to pathological processes such as carcinogenesis. To take advantage of miRNA profiling in skin disease it is essential to investigate miRNA expression pattern in normal human skin. Here we investigated miRNA expression profiles from skin biopsies of 8 healthy volunteers taken from sun protected and mildly photo damaged skin using the modified protocol for miRNA extraction. We were able to show a constant pattern of miRNA expression between different individuals. We did not find any significant differences in miRNA expression between sun protected and mildly photodamaged skin. These results may be valuable for future design of studies on miRNA expression in skin disease.	Aged;Biopsy;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Microarray Analysis;Middle Aged;Reproducibility of Results;Skin/ metabolism/pathology;Skin Aging;Ultraviolet Rays/adverse effects
Dependence of intracellular and exosomal microRNAs on viral E6/E7 oncogene expression in HPV-positive tumor cells	A. Honegger, et al.	2015	25760330	Specific types of human papillomaviruses (HPVs) cause cervical cancer. Cervical cancers exhibit aberrant cellular microRNA (miRNA) expression patterns. By genome-wide analyses, we investigate whether the intracellular and exosomal miRNA compositions of HPV-positive cancer cells are dependent on endogenous E6/E7 oncogene expression. Deep sequencing studies combined with qRT-PCR analyses show that E6/E7 silencing significantly affects ten of the 52 most abundant intracellular miRNAs in HPV18-positive HeLa cells, downregulating miR-17-5p, miR-186-5p, miR-378a-3p, miR-378f, miR-629-5p and miR-7-5p, and upregulating miR-143-3p, miR-23a-3p, miR-23b-3p and miR-27b-3p. The effects of E6/E7 silencing on miRNA levels are mainly not dependent on p53 and similarly observed in HPV16-positive SiHa cells. The E6/E7-regulated miRNAs are enriched for species involved in the control of cell proliferation, senescence and apoptosis, suggesting that they contribute to the growth of HPV-positive cancer cells. Consistently, we show that sustained E6/E7 expression is required to maintain the intracellular levels of members of the miR-17~92 cluster, which reduce expression of the anti-proliferative p21 gene in HPV-positive cancer cells. In exosomes secreted by HeLa cells, a distinct seven-miRNA-signature was identified among the most abundant miRNAs, with significant downregulation of let-7d-5p, miR-20a-5p, miR-378a-3p, miR-423-3p, miR-7-5p, miR-92a-3p and upregulation of miR-21-5p, upon E6/E7 silencing. Several of the E6/E7-dependent exosomal miRNAs have also been linked to the control of cell proliferation and apoptosis. This study represents the first global analysis of intracellular and exosomal miRNAs and shows that viral oncogene expression affects the abundance of multiple miRNAs likely contributing to the E6/E7-dependent growth of HPV-positive cancer cells.	Apoptosis/genetics;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation/genetics;DNA-Binding Proteins/ metabolism;Exosomes/genetics/metabolism;Female;Genome-Wide Association Study;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Humans;Immunoblotting;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Microscopy, Electron, Transmission;Oncogene Proteins, Viral/ metabolism;Papillomavirus Infections/complications/genetics;Repressor Proteins/ metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Transfection;Uterine Cervical Neoplasms/genetics/ virology
The miR-17-92 cluster of microRNAs confers tumorigenicity by inhibiting oncogene-induced senescence	L. Hong, et al.	2010	20851997	In mammalian cells, activation of oncogenes usually triggers innate tumor-suppressing defense mechanisms, including apoptosis and senescence, which are compromised by additional mutations before cancers are developed. The miR-17-92 gene cluster, a polycistron encoding six microRNAs (miRNA), is frequently overexpressed in human cancers and has been shown to promote several aspects of oncogenic transformation, including evasion of apoptosis. In the current study, we show a new role of miR-17-92 in inhibiting oncogenic ras-induced senescence. Further dissection of the miRNA components in this cluster reveals that the miR-17/20a seed family accounts for this antisenescence activity. miR-17 and miR-20a are both necessary and sufficient for conferring resistance to ras-induced senescence by directly targeting p21(WAF1), a key effector of senescence. By contrast, these components are not essential for the ability of miR-17-92 to evade Myc-induced apoptosis. Moreover, disruption of senescence by miR-17-92 or its miR-17/20a components leads to enhanced oncogenic transformation by activated ras in primary human cells. Taken together with previous reports that miR-17-92 inhibits apoptosis by suppressing Pten via the miR-19 components, our results indicate that this miRNA cluster promotes tumorigenesis by antagonizing both tumor-suppressing mechanisms, apoptosis, and senescence, through the activities of different miRNA components encoded in this cluster.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Apoptosis;Blotting, Western;Cell Proliferation;Cell Transformation, Neoplastic/ genetics;Colony-Forming Units Assay;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/ genetics/metabolism;Female;Fibroblasts/cytology/metabolism;Humans;Mice;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/ physiology;Neoplasms/etiology/ pathology;Oncogenes/ physiology;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;ras Proteins/ metabolism
MiR-21 is required for efficient kidney regeneration in fish	B. Hoppe, et al.	2015	26577279	BACKGROUND: Acute kidney injury in mammals, which is caused by cardiovascular diseases or the administration of antibiotics with nephrotoxic side-effects is a life-threatening disease, since loss of nephrons is irreversible in mammals. In contrast, fish are able to generate new nephrons even in adulthood and thus provide a good model to study renal tubular regeneration. RESULTS: Here, we investigated the early response after gentamicin-induced renal injury, using the short-lived killifish Nothobranchius furzeri. A set of microRNAs was differentially expressed after renal damage, among them miR-21, which was up-regulated. A locked nucleic acid-modified antimiR-21 efficiently knocked down miR-21 activity and caused a lag in the proliferative response, enhanced apoptosis and an overall delay in regeneration. Transcriptome profiling identified apoptosis as a process that was significantly affected upon antimiR-21 administration. Together with functional data this suggests that miR-21 acts as a pro-proliferative and anti-apoptotic factor in the context of kidney regeneration in fish. Possible downstream candidate genes that mediate its effect on proliferation and apoptosis include igfbp3 and fosl1, among other genes. CONCLUSION: In summary, our findings extend the role of miR-21 in the kidney. For the first time we show its functional involvement in regeneration indicating that fast proliferation and reduced apoptosis are important for efficient renal tubular regeneration.	Acute Kidney Injury/chemically induced/therapy;Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Cell Proliferation/genetics;Cyprinodontiformes/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/ genetics;Gentamicins;Kidney Tubules/ growth & development/metabolism;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics;Regeneration/ genetics/physiology
MicroRNAs located in the Hox gene clusters are implicated in huntington's disease pathogenesis	A. G. Hoss, et al.	2014	24586208	Transcriptional dysregulation has long been recognized as central to the pathogenesis of Huntington's disease (HD). MicroRNAs (miRNAs) represent a major system of post-transcriptional regulation, by either preventing translational initiation or by targeting transcripts for storage or for degradation. Using next-generation miRNA sequencing in prefrontal cortex (Brodmann Area 9) of twelve HD and nine controls, we identified five miRNAs (miR-10b-5p, miR-196a-5p, miR-196b-5p, miR-615-3p and miR-1247-5p) up-regulated in HD at genome-wide significance (FDR q-value<0.05). Three of these, miR-196a-5p, miR-196b-5p and miR-615-3p, were expressed at near zero levels in control brains. Expression was verified for all five miRNAs using reverse transcription quantitative PCR and all but miR-1247-5p were replicated in an independent sample (8HD/8C). Ectopic miR-10b-5p expression in PC12 HTT-Q73 cells increased survival by MTT assay and cell viability staining suggesting increased expression may be a protective response. All of the miRNAs but miR-1247-5p are located in intergenic regions of Hox clusters. Total mRNA sequencing in the same samples identified fifteen of 55 genes within the Hox cluster gene regions as differentially expressed in HD, and the Hox genes immediately adjacent to the four Hox cluster miRNAs as up-regulated. Pathway analysis of mRNA targets of these miRNAs implicated functions for neuronal differentiation, neurite outgrowth, cell death and survival. In regression models among the HD brains, huntingtin CAG repeat size, onset age and age at death were independently found to be inversely related to miR-10b-5p levels. CAG repeat size and onset age were independently inversely related to miR-196a-5p, onset age was inversely related to miR-196b-5p and age at death was inversely related to miR-615-3p expression. These results suggest these Hox-related miRNAs may be involved in neuroprotective response in HD. Recently, miRNAs have shown promise as biomarkers for human diseases and given their relationship to disease expression, these miRNAs are biomarker candidates in HD.	Animals;Autopsy;Cell Differentiation/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation;Genes, Homeobox;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Humans;Huntington Disease/ genetics/pathology;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Neurons/cytology;Neuroprotective Agents;PC12 Cells;Prefrontal Cortex/metabolism/pathology;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Rats
microRNA Profiles in Parkinson's Disease Prefrontal Cortex	A. G. Hoss, et al.	2016	26973511	OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study was to compare the microRNA (miRNA) profile of Parkinson's disease (PD) frontal cortex with normal control brain, allowing for the identification of PD specific signatures as well as study the disease-related phenotypes of onset age and dementia. METHODS: Small RNA sequence analysis was performed from prefrontal cortex for 29 PD samples and 33 control samples. After sample QC, normalization and batch correction, linear regression was employed to identify miRNAs altered in PD, and a PD classifier was developed using weighted voting class prediction. The relationship of miRNA levels to onset age and PD with dementia (PDD) was also characterized in case-only analyses. RESULTS: One twenty five miRNAs were differentially expressed in PD at a genome-wide level of significance (FDR q < 0.05). A set of 29 miRNAs classified PD from non-diseased brain (93.9% specificity, 96.6% sensitivity). The majority of differentially expressed miRNAs (105/125) showed an ordinal relationship from control, to PD without dementia (PDN), to PDD. Among PD brains, 36 miRNAs classified PDD from PDN (sensitivity = 81.2%, specificity = 88.9%). Among differentially expressed miRNAs, miR-10b-5p had a positive association with onset age (q = 4.7e-2). CONCLUSIONS: Based on cortical miRNA levels, PD brains were accurately classified from non-diseased brains. Additionally, the PDD miRNA profile exhibited a more severe pattern of alteration among those differentially expressed in PD. To evaluate the clinical utility of miRNAs as potential clinical biomarkers, further characterization and testing of brain-related miRNA alterations in peripheral biofluids is warranted.	Huntington's disease;Parkinson's disease;cortex;dementia;miRNA;small RNA sequencing
miR-10b-5p expression in Huntington's disease brain relates to age of onset and the extent of striatal involvement	A. G. Hoss, et al.	2015	25889241	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that recognize sites of complementarity of target messenger RNAs, resulting in transcriptional regulation and translational repression of target genes. In Huntington's disease (HD), a neurodegenerative disease caused by a trinucleotide repeat expansion, miRNA dyregulation has been reported, which may impact gene expression and modify the progression and severity of HD. METHODS: We performed next-generation miRNA sequence analysis in prefrontal cortex (Brodmann Area 9) from 26 HD, 2 HD gene positive, and 36 control brains. Neuropathological information was available for all HD brains, including age at disease onset, CAG-repeat size, Vonsattel grade, and Hadzi-Vonsattel striatal and cortical scores, a continuous measure of the extent of neurodegeneration. Linear models were performed to examine the relationship of miRNA expression to these clinical features, and messenger RNA targets of associated miRNAs were tested for gene ontology term enrichment. RESULTS: We identified 75 miRNAs differentially expressed in HD brain (FDR q-value <0.05). Among the HD brains, nine miRNAs were significantly associated with Vonsattel grade of neuropathological involvement and three of these, miR-10b-5p, miR-10b-3p, and miR-302a-3p, significantly related to the Hadzi-Vonsattel striatal score (a continuous measure of striatal involvement) after adjustment for CAG length. Five miRNAs (miR-10b-5p, miR-196a-5p, miR-196b-5p, miR-10b-3p, and miR-106a-5p) were identified as having a significant relationship to CAG length-adjusted age of onset including miR-10b-5p, the mostly strongly over-expressed miRNA in HD cases. Although prefrontal cortex was the source of tissue profiled in these studies, the relationship of miR-10b-5p expression to striatal involvement in the disease was independent of cortical involvement. Correlation of miRNAs to the clinical features clustered by direction of effect and the gene targets of the observed miRNAs showed association to processes relating to nervous system development and transcriptional regulation. CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that miRNA expression in cortical BA9 provides insight into striatal involvement and support a role for these miRNAs, particularly miR-10b-5p, in HD pathogenicity. The miRNAs identified in our studies of postmortem brain tissue may be detectable in peripheral fluids and thus warrant consideration as accessible biomarkers for disease stage, rate of progression, and other important clinical characteristics of HD.	Adult;Age of Onset;Aged;Brain/ pathology;Cerebral Cortex/pathology;Corpus Striatum/ metabolism;Disease Progression;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Humans;Huntington Disease/ genetics;Linear Models;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged
Study of plasma-derived miRNAs mimic differences in Huntington's disease brain	A. G. Hoss, et al.	2015	26573701	BACKGROUND: Biomarkers for Huntington's disease progression could accelerate therapeutic developments and improve patient care. Brain microRNAs relating to clinical features of Huntington's disease may represent a potential Huntington's disease biomarker in blood. OBJECTIVE: This study was undertaken to examine candidate microRNAs in plasma to determine whether changes observed in HD brains are detectable in peripheral samples. METHODS: Four microRNAs from 26 manifest Huntington's disease, four asymptomatic Huntington's disease gene carriers, and eight controls were quantified in plasma using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Linear regression was used to assess microRNA levels across control, asymptomatic gene carriers, and manifest patients. RESULTS: miR-10b-5p (P = 0.0068) and miR-486-5p (P = 0.044) were elevated in Huntington's disease plasma. miR-10b-5p was decreased in asymptomatic gene carriers as compared with patients with Huntington's disease (P = 0.049), but no difference between asymptomatic gene carriers and healthy controls was observed (P = 0.24). CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that microRNA changes observed in Huntington's disease brain may be detectable in plasma and have potential clinical utility.	Adolescent;Adult;Biomarkers/blood;Brain/ pathology;Child;Child, Preschool;Disease Progression;Female;Humans;Huntington Disease/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Infant;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood;Middle Aged;Young Adult;Huntington's disease;biomarker;blood;miRNA;microRNA
Comprehensive Analysis of Interaction Networks of Telomerase Reverse Transcriptase with Multiple Bioinformatic Approaches: Deep Mining the Potential Functions of Telomere and Telomerase	C. Hou, et al.	2017	28281877	Telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) is the protein component of telomerase complex. Evidence has accumulated showing that the nontelomeric functions of TERT are independent of telomere elongation. However, the mechanisms governing the interaction between TERT and its target genes are not revealed clear. The biological functions of TERT are not fully elucidated and have thus far been underestimated. To further explore these functions, we investigated TERT interaction networks using multiple bioinformatic databases, including BioGRID, STRING, DAVID, GeneCards, GeneMANIA, PANTHER, miRWalk, mirTarBase, miRNet, miRDB, and TargetScan. In addition, network diagrams were built using Cytoscape software. As competing endogenous RNAs (ceRNAs) are endogenous transcripts that compete for the binding of microRNAs (miRNAs) by using shared miRNA recognition elements, they are involved in creating widespread regulatory networks. Therefore, the ceRNA regulatory networks of TERT were also investigated in this study. Interestingly, we found that the three genes PABPC1, SLC7A11, and TP53 were present in both TERT interaction networks and ceRNAs target genes. It was predicted that TERT might play nontelomeric roles in the generation or development of some rare diseases, such as Rift Valley fever and dyscalculia. Thus, our data will help to decipher the interaction networks of TERT and reveal the unknown functions of telomerase in cancer and aging-related diseases.	aging;bioinformatics;cancer;telomerase;telomere
Quantitative proteomics reveals diverse roles of miR-148a from gastric cancer progression to neurological development	C. W. Hu, et al.	2013	23869555	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are noncoding RNAs that control gene expression either by degradation of mRNAs or inhibition of protein translation. miR-148a has been reported to have the impacts on tumor progression. Here, a quantitative proteomics combined with stable isotope labeling was applied to identify the global profile of miR-148a-regulated downstream proteins. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD000190. A total of 2938 proteins were quantified, and 55 proteins were considered to be regulated by miR-148a. We found that not only proteins associated with cancer progression but also molecules involved in neural development were regulated by miR-148a. This study is the first to identify the function of miR-148a in neural development by using a proteomic approach. Analysis of a public clinical database also showed that the patients with neural diseases could display abnormal expression of miR-148a. Moreover, silencing of miR-148a led to the abnormal morphology and decreased expression of neuron-related markers in the developing brain of zebrafish. These results provided important insight into the regulation of neurological development elicited by miR-148a.	Alzheimer Disease/genetics/metabolism;Animals;Base Sequence;Brain/embryology/metabolism;Case-Control Studies;Cell Line, Tumor;Disease Progression;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Parkinson Disease/genetics/metabolism;Proteomics;RNA Interference;Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid;Spinal Cord/embryology/metabolism;Stomach Neoplasms;Transcriptome;Zebrafish
Tat-Mediated Induction of miRs-34a & -138 Promotes Astrocytic Activation via Downregulation of SIRT1: Implications for Aging in HAND	G. Hu, et al.	2017	28236278	Astrocyte activation is a hallmark of HIV infection and aging in the CNS. In chronically infected HIV patients, prolonged activation of astrocytes has been linked to accelerated aging including but not limited to neurocognitive impairment and frailty. The current study addresses the role of HIV protein Tat in inducing a set of small noncoding microRNAs (miRNA) that play critical role in astrogliosis. In our efforts to link astrocyte activation as an indicator of aging, we assessed the brains of both wild type and HIV transgenic rats for the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). As expected, in the WT animals we observed age-dependent increase in astrogliosis in the older animals compared to the younger group. Interestingly, compared to the young WT group, young HIV Tg rats exhibited higher levels of GFAP in this trend was also observed in the older HIV Tg rats compared to the older WT group. Based on the role of SIRT1 in aging and the regulation of SIRT1 by miRNAs-34a and -138, we next assessed the expression levels of these miRs in the brains of both the young an old WT and HIV Tg rats. While there were no significant differences in the young WT versus the HIV Tg rats, in the older HIV Tg rats there was a significant upregulation in the expression of miRs-34a & -138 in the brains. Furthermore, increased expression of miRs-34a & -138 in the older Tg rats, correlated with a concomitant decrease in their common anti-aging target protein SIRT1, in the brains of these animals. To delineate the mechanism of action we assessed the role of HIV-Tat (present in the Tg rats) in inducing miRs-34a & -138 in both the primary astrocytes and the astrocytoma cell line A172, thereby leading to posttranscriptional suppression of SIRT1 with a concomitant up regulation of NF-kB driven expression of GFAP.	Aging;Astrocyte;Cns;Hiv;Sirt1;miRNA
Allele-selective inhibition of huntingtin expression by switching to an miRNA-like RNAi mechanism	J. Hu, et al.	2010	21095568	Inhibiting expression of huntingtin (HTT) protein is a promising strategy for treating Huntington's disease (HD), but indiscriminant inhibition of both wild-type and mutant alleles may lead to toxicity. An ideal silencing agent would block expression of mutant HTT while leaving expression of wild-type HTT intact. We observe that fully complementary duplex RNAs targeting the expanded CAG repeat within HTT mRNA block expression of both alleles. Switching the RNAi mechanism toward that used by miRNAs by introducing one or more mismatched bases into these duplex RNAs leads to potent (<10 nM) and highly selective (>30-fold relative to wild-type HTT) inhibition of mutant HTT expression in patient-derived cells. Potent, allele selective inhibition of HTT by mismatched RNAs provides a new option for developing HD therapeutics.	Alleles;Base Pair Mismatch;Base Sequence;Cell Line;Humans;Huntingtin Protein;Huntington Disease/genetics/therapy;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Mutation;Nerve Tissue Proteins/antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics/metabolism;Nuclear Proteins/antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics/metabolism;RNA Interference;RNA, Small Interfering/metabolism
MicroRNA-34c Downregulation Ameliorates Amyloid-beta-Induced Synaptic Failure and Memory Deficits by Targeting VAMP2	S. Hu, et al.	2015	26402112	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small ( approximately 22-nucleotide [nt]) noncoding RNAs that regulate biological processes at the post-transcriptional level. Dysregulation of specific miRNAs leads to impaired synaptic plasticity resulting in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Amyloid-beta (Abeta) accumulation is the most important pathogenic factor for AD development. Therefore, focusing on Abeta-targeted miRNAs may have therapeutic implications for AD. We found that miR-34c, a miRNA that was previously reported to be upregulated in a transgenic AD model and patients, was significantly increased in hippocampal neurons exposed to Abeta. Western blots and luciferase assay confirmed that increased miR-34c was closely related to VAMP2 reduction. Furthermore, miR-34c blockade upregulated VAMP2 expression and rescued synaptic failure as well as learning and memory deficits caused by Abeta. The Abeta-miR-34c-VAMP2 pathway mediates the sustained VAMP2 reduction in AD patients and provides a novel underlying epigenetic mechanism for attenuation of Abeta toxicity in AD.	Amyloid beta-Peptides/ metabolism;Animals;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Survival/physiology;Down-Regulation;HEK293 Cells;Hippocampus/metabolism;Humans;Maze Learning/physiology;Membrane Potentials/physiology;Memory Disorders/ metabolism;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Peptide Fragments/ metabolism;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Synapses/metabolism;Tissue Culture Techniques;Vesicle-Associated Membrane Protein 2/metabolism;Alzheimer's disease;Vamp2;amyloid-beta;miR-34c
MiR-106b~25 cluster regulates multidrug resistance in an ABC transporter-independent manner via downregulation of EP300	Y. Hu, et al.	2016	26573761	MicroRNA (miR)-106b~25 cluster regulates bypass of doxorubicin and gamma-radiation induced senescence by downregulation of the E-cadherin transcriptional activator EP300. We asked whether upregulation of miR-106~25 cluster generates cells with a truly multidrug resistant (MDR) phenotype and whether this is due to upregulation of the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporter P-glycoprotein. We used minimally transformed mammary epithelial breast cancer cells (MTMECs) in which the miR-106b~25 cluster was experimentally upregulated by lentiviral transfection or in which hairpins targeting either EP300 or E-cadherin mRNAs have been expressed with lentiviruses. We find that overexpression of miR-106b~25 cluster led to the generation of MDR MTMECs (resistant to etoposide, colchicine and paclitaxel). Paclitaxel resistance was also studied after experimental downregulation of EP300 or E-cadherin. However none of these cells overexpressed P-glycoprotein or where able to efflux a fluorescent derivative of paclitaxel, making this phenotype drug-transporter independent. Paclitaxel treatment in MTMECs led to an increase in early apoptotic cells (Annexin V-positive), activation of caspase-9 and increase in the proportion of cells at the G2/M phase of the cell cycle. However, MTMEC overexpressing miR-106b~25 cluster, or with EP300 or E-cadherin downregulated, showed less activation of apoptosis, caspase-9 and caspase-3/-7 activities. Thus, miR-106b~25 cluster controls transporter-independent MDR by apoptosis evasion via downregulation of EP300.	ATP-Binding Cassette Transporters;Antineoplastic Agents/ pharmacology;Apoptosis;Breast/ cytology;Cadherins/biosynthesis/genetics;Cell Line, Transformed;Colchicine/pharmacology;Down-Regulation;Doxorubicin/pharmacology;Drug Resistance, Multiple/ genetics;Drug Resistance, Neoplasm/ genetics;E1A-Associated p300 Protein/ biosynthesis/genetics;Epithelial Cells/ drug effects/radiation effects;Etoposide/pharmacology;Gamma Rays;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Multigene Family;Neoplasm Proteins/ genetics/physiology;Paclitaxel/pharmacology;Phenotype;RNA, Neoplasm/ genetics;Transduction, Genetic;Tumor Stem Cell Assay
Corrigendum: Diagnostic Value of microRNA for Alzheimer's Disease: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis	Y. B. Hu, et al.	2017	28261090	[This corrects the article on p. 13 in vol. 8, PMID: 26903857.].	Alzheimer's disease;diagnostic value;meta-analysis;miRNA;systematic review
MicroRNA-98 induces an Alzheimer's disease-like disturbance by targeting insulin-like growth factor 1	Y. K. Hu, et al.	2013	23740209	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by extracellular senile plaques and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles. Many microRNAs (miRs) participate in regulating amyloid beta (Abeta) formation and the metabolism of tau protein in the process of AD, and some are up-regulated in AD patients or transgenic models of AD. However, the role of miR-98 in AD remains unclear. Here, we showed that the expression of miR-98 was negatively correlated with the insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) protein level in APP/PS1 mice. MiR-98 target sites in IGF-1 were confirmed by luciferase assay in HEK293 cells. Overexpression of miR-98 in N2a/APP cells down-regulated the IGF-1 protein level and promoted Abeta production, whereas inhibition of miR-98 in N2a/APP cells up-regulated the IGF-1 protein level and suppressed Abeta production. Furthermore, overexpression of miR-98 in N2a/WT cells increased the phosphorylation of tau, whereas inhibition of miR-98 reduced it. These results suggest that miR-98 increases Abeta formation and tau phosphorylation by inhibiting the translation of IGF-1, which might provide a therapeutic strategy for AD.	Alzheimer Disease/ metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ metabolism;Animals;Down-Regulation;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Insulin-Like Growth Factor I/ metabolism;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Phosphorylation;tau Proteins/ metabolism
MicroRNA-29 induces cellular senescence in aging muscle through multiple signaling pathways	Z. Hu, et al.	2014	24659628	The mechanisms underlying the development of aging-induced muscle atrophy are unclear. By microRNA array and individual qPCR analyses, we found significant up-regulation of miR-29 in muscles of aged rodents vs. results in young. With aging, p85alpha, IGF-1 and B-myb muscle levels were lower while the expression of certain cell arrest proteins (p53, p16 and pRB) increased. When miR-29 was expressed in muscle progenitor cells (MPC), their proliferation was impaired while SA-betagal expression increased signifying the development of senescence. Impaired MPC proliferation resulted from interactions between miR-29 and the 3'-UTR of p85a, IGF-1 and B-myb, suppressing the translation of these mediators of myoblast proliferation. In vivo, electroporation of miR-29 into muscles of young mice suppressed the proliferation and increased levels of cellular arrest proteins, recapitulating aging-induced responses in muscle. A potential stimulus of miR-29 expression is Wnt-3a since we found that exogenous Wnt-3a stimulated miR-29 expression 2.7-fold in primary cultures of MPCs. Thus, aging-induced muscle senescence results from activation of miR-29 by Wnt-3a leading to suppressed expression of several signaling proteins (p85alpha, IGF-1 and B-myb) that act coordinately to impair the proliferation of MPCs contributing to muscle atrophy. The increase in miR-29 provides a potential mechanism for aging-induced sarcopenia.	3' Untranslated Regions;Aging/ genetics/metabolism/ pathology;Animals;Cell Aging/genetics/physiology;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Class Ia Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinase/genetics/metabolism;Insulin-Like Growth Factor I/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Muscle, Skeletal/ metabolism/ pathology;Myoblasts, Skeletal/metabolism/pathology;Promoter Regions, Genetic;Rats;Rats, Inbred F344;Sarcopenia/ etiology/genetics/pathology;Signal Transduction;Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;Up-Regulation;Wnt3A Protein/metabolism
Reduced transcriptional activity in the p53 pathway of senescent cells revealed by the MDM2 antagonist nutlin-3	B. Huang and L. T. Vassilev	2009	20157557	The p53 tumor suppressor plays a key role in induction and maintenance of cellular senescence but p53-regulated response to stress in senescent cells is poorly understood. Here, we use the small-molecule MDM2 antagonist, nutlin-3a, to selectively activate p53 and probe functionality of the p53 pathway in senescent human fibroblasts, WI-38. Our experiments revealed overall reduction in nutlin-induced transcriptional activity of nine p53 target genes and four p53-regulated microRNAs, indicating that not only p53 protein levels but also its ability to activate transcription are altered during senescence. Addition of nutlin restored doxorubicin-induced p53 protein and transcriptional activity in senescent cells to the levels in early passage cells but only partially restored its apoptotic activity, suggesting that changes in both upstream and downstream p53 signaling during senescence are responsible for attenuated response to genotoxic stress.	Antibiotics, Antineoplastic/pharmacology;Apoptosis/drug effects/physiology;Cell Aging/ drug effects/physiology;Cell Cycle/drug effects/physiology;Cell Line;Doxorubicin/pharmacology;Fibroblasts/drug effects/ metabolism;Humans;Imidazoles/ pharmacology;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Piperazines/ pharmacology;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-mdm2/ antagonists & inhibitors/metabolism;Signal Transduction/ drug effects/physiology;Transcription, Genetic/ drug effects/physiology;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/ metabolism;Mdm2;apoptosis;cancer;p53;senescence
Upregulation of miR-137 protects anesthesia-induced hippocampal neurodegeneration	C. Huang, et al.	2014	25197371	PURPOSE: Ketamine is commonly used in pediatric anesthesia but may cause neurodegeneration in young brains. The aim of the study is to use an animal model to characterize the role of microRNA 137 (miR-137) in ketamine-induced neurodegeneration in neonatal hippocampus. METHODS: Young Sprague-Dawley Rats (1 month old) was systemically administrated with ketamine (75 mg/kg) for 3 days. TUNEL assay was used to assess the ketamine-induced neurodegeneration of hippocampal CA1 neurons, quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) to assess the expression of miR-137 and Morris water maze test (MWM) to assess the damaged memory function. Alternatively, lentivirus over-expressing miR-137 was injected into hippocampus before ketamine administration, and the subsequent effects of miR-137 upregulation on ketamine-induced hippocampal neurodegeneration and memory dysfunction were investigated. Furthermore, the direct downstream target of miR-137, CDC42, was down-regulated by siRNA injection into hippocampus. The effects of CDC42 inhibition on hippocampal apoptosis and memory function were also investigated. RESULTS: Excessive ketamine treatment resulted in severe apoptosis in hippocampal CA1 neurons, downregulation of miR-137 in hippocampus and significant long-term memory dysfunction. Conversely, pre-treatment of overexpressing miR-137 protected hippocampal neurodegeneration and memory loss. The molecular target of miR-137, CDC42 was down-regulated by ketamine in hippocampus. Knocking down hippocampal CDC42 exerted an apoptotic effect on hippocampal neurons and memory loss, similar to the effect of ketamine treatment. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrated that miR-137 played an important role in regulating ketamine induced hippocampal neurodegeneration, possibly through CDC42.	Anesthetics, Dissociative/ toxicity;Animals;Gene Expression Regulation;Hippocampus/drug effects;In Situ Nick-End Labeling;Ketamine/ toxicity;Maze Learning/drug effects;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Nerve Degeneration/chemically induced/ prevention & control;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Up-Regulation;cdc42 GTP-Binding Protein/biosynthesis;Anesthesia;Cdc42;hippocampal neurodegeneration;ketamine;miR-137
PCK1 is negatively regulated by bta-miR-26a, and a single-nucleotide polymorphism in the 3' untranslated region is involved in semen quality and longevity of Holstein bulls	J. Huang, et al.	2016	26725319	Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 (PCK1) is a multi-functional enzyme that plays important roles in physiological processes, including reproduction. We previously reported that the PCK1 transcript has five splice variants; PCK1-AS4, which lacks exon 5, is enriched in the testis of Holstein bulls. In the present study, we profiled select PCK1 transcript variants in the testis, epididymus, and semen of high- and low-performance bulls, and examined the possibility that microRNAs may be involved in single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)-mediated modulation of PCK1 expression. PCK1-AS4 abundance is not significantly different between high- and low-performance bulls. Luciferase reporter assays, however, showed that bovine PCK1 expression is repressed by bta-miR-26a in HepG2 hepatocyte cells. One SNP (c. + 2183 G > T) at the miRNA-binding site of PCK1 does not influence PCK1 expression, but is associated with elevated ejaculation volume, fresh sperm motility, and genomic estimated breeding value of longevity, as well as with reduced values of composite index and calving ease. Collectively, the identified 3'-untranslated-region SNP variant highlights the importance of PCK1 in the fecundity of Holstein bulls, and implicates a role for bta-miR-26a in regulating PCK1 abundance. Further study is needed to assess the effects of other genetic variants in 5'-flanking region and exons of PCK1 on enzyme levels in the testis and sperm. Mol. Reprod. Dev. 83: 217-225, 2016. (c) 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.	3' Untranslated Regions;Animals;Cattle;Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic;Hep G2 Cells;Humans;Longevity/ genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Phosphoenolpyruvate Carboxykinase (GTP)/biosynthesis/genetics;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Semen Analysis
Blood miRNomes and transcriptomes reveal novel longevity mechanisms in the long-lived bat, Myotis myotis	Z. Huang, et al.	2016	27832764	BACKGROUND: Chiroptera, the bats, are the only order of mammals capable of true self-powered flight. Bats exhibit a number of other exceptional traits such as echolocation, viral tolerance and, perhaps most puzzlingly, extreme longevity given their body size. Little is known about the molecular mechanisms driving their extended longevity particularly at the levels of gene expression and post-transcriptional regulation. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms that may underlie their unusual longevity, we have deep sequenced 246.5 million small RNA reads from whole blood of the long-lived greater mouse-eared bats, Myotis myotis, and conducted a series of genome-wide comparative analyses between bat and non-bat mammals (human, pig and cow) in both blood miRNomes and transcriptomes, for the first time. RESULTS: We identified 539 miRNA gene candidates from bats, of which 468 unique mature miRNA were obtained. More than half of these miRNA (65.1 %) were regarded as bat-specific, regulating genes involved in the immune, ageing and tumorigenesis pathways. We have also developed a stringent pipeline for genome-wide miRNome comparisons across species, and identified 37 orthologous miRNA groups shared with bat, human, pig and cow, 6 of which were differentially expressed. For bats, 3 out of 4 up-regulated miRNA (miR-101-3p, miR-16-5p, miR-143-3p) likely function as tumor suppressors against various kinds of cancers, while one down-regulated miRNA (miR-221-5p) acts as a tumorigenesis promoter in human breast and pancreatic cancers. Additionally, a genome-wide comparison of mRNA transcriptomes across species also revealed specific gene expression patterns in bats. 127 up-regulated genes were enriched mainly in mitotic cell cycle and DNA repair mechanisms, while 364 down-regulated genes were involved primarily in mitochondrial activity. CONCLUSIONS: Our comprehensive and integrative analyses revealed bat-specific and differentially expressed miRNA and mRNA that function in key longevity pathways, producing a distinct bat gene expression pattern. For the first time, we show that bats may possess unique regulatory mechanisms for resisting tumorigenesis, repairing cellular damage and preventing oxidative stresses, all of which likely contribute to the extraordinary lifespan of Myotis myotis.	Bats;Blood miRNA;Comparative miRNome;Illumina miRNA-Seq;Myotis myotis
Mutation altering the miR-184 seed region causes familial keratoconus with cataract	A. E. Hughes, et al.	2011	21996275	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) bind to complementary sequences within the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of mRNAs from hundreds of target genes, leading either to mRNA degradation or suppression of translation. We found that a mutation in the seed region of miR-184 (MIR184) is responsible for familial severe keratoconus combined with early-onset anterior polar cataract by deep sequencing of a linkage region known to contain the mutation. The mutant form fails to compete with miR-205 (MIR205) for overlapping target sites on the 3' UTRs of INPPL1 and ITGB4. Although these target genes and miR-205 are expressed widely, the phenotype is restricted to the cornea and lens because of the very high expression of miR-184 in these tissues. Our finding highlights the tissue specificity of a gene network regulated by a miRNA. Awareness of the important function of miRNAs could aid identification of susceptibility genes and new therapeutic targets for treatment of both rare and common diseases.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Case-Control Studies;Cataract/ congenital/genetics;Cornea/metabolism;HeLa Cells;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Humans;Integrin beta4/genetics;Keratoconus/ genetics;Lens, Crystalline/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Mutation;Northern Ireland;Organ Specificity/ genetics;Phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-Trisphosphate 5-Phosphatases;Phosphoric Monoester Hydrolases/genetics;Polymorphism, Genetic;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid
Maintenance of age in human neurons generated by microRNA-based neuronal conversion of fibroblasts	C. J. Huh, et al.	2016	27644593	Aging is a major risk factor in many forms of late-onset neurodegenerative disorders. The ability to recapitulate age-related characteristics of human neurons in culture will offer unprecedented opportunities to study the biological processes underlying neuronal aging. Here, we show that using a recently demonstrated microRNA-based cellular reprogramming approach, human fibroblasts from postnatal to near centenarian donors can be efficiently converted into neurons that maintain multiple age-associated signatures. Application of an epigenetic biomarker of aging (referred to as epigenetic clock) to DNA methylation data revealed that the epigenetic ages of fibroblasts were highly correlated with corresponding age estimates of reprogrammed neurons. Transcriptome and microRNA profiles reveal genes differentially expressed between young and old neurons. Further analyses of oxidative stress, DNA damage and telomere length exhibit the retention of age-associated cellular properties in converted neurons from corresponding fibroblasts. Our results collectively demonstrate the maintenance of age after neuronal conversion.	aging;developmental biology;human;human neurons;neuronal conversion;neuroscience;stem cells
Novel integrative genomic tool for interrogating lithium response in bipolar disorder	J. G. Hunsberger, et al.	2015	25646593	We developed a novel integrative genomic tool called GRANITE (Genetic Regulatory Analysis of Networks Investigational Tool Environment) that can effectively analyze large complex data sets to generate interactive networks. GRANITE is an open-source tool and invaluable resource for a variety of genomic fields. Although our analysis is confined to static expression data, GRANITE has the capability of evaluating time-course data and generating interactive networks that may shed light on acute versus chronic treatment, as well as evaluating dose response and providing insight into mechanisms that underlie therapeutic versus sub-therapeutic doses or toxic doses. As a proof-of-concept study, we investigated lithium (Li) response in bipolar disorder (BD). BD is a severe mood disorder marked by cycles of mania and depression. Li is one of the most commonly prescribed and decidedly effective treatments for many patients (responders), although its mode of action is not yet fully understood, nor is it effective in every patient (non-responders). In an in vitro study, we compared vehicle versus chronic Li treatment in patient-derived lymphoblastoid cells (LCLs) (derived from either responders or non-responders) using both microRNA (miRNA) and messenger RNA gene expression profiling. We present both Li responder and non-responder network visualizations created by our GRANITE analysis in BD. We identified by network visualization that the Let-7 family is consistently downregulated by Li in both groups where this miRNA family has been implicated in neurodegeneration, cell survival and synaptic development. We discuss the potential of this analysis for investigating treatment response and even providing clinicians with a tool for predicting treatment response in their patients, as well as for providing the industry with a tool for identifying network nodes as targets for novel drug discovery.	Adult;Antimanic Agents/ therapeutic use;Bipolar Disorder/ drug therapy;Female;Genomics/instrumentation/methods;Humans;Lithium Compounds/ therapeutic use;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Pharmacogenetics/instrumentation/ methods;Statistics as Topic/instrumentation/ methods;Treatment Outcome;Young Adult
Identification of miRNAs associated with dark-induced senescence in Arabidopsis	X. Huo, et al.	2015	26530097	BACKGROUND: microRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small (~21 nucleotide) single-stranded non-coding RNAs that typically function by guiding cleavage of target genes. To find the miRNAs that may be involved in dark-induced leaf senescence, we identified miRNAs by microarray platform using Arabidopsis thaliana leaves from both whole darkened plants (DPs) and individually darkened leaves (IDLs). RESULTS: We found that the expressions of 137 miRNAs (P < 0.01, signal intensity >0) were significantly changed both in DP and IDL leaves. Among them, the expression levels of 44 miRNAs were relative higher than others (P < 0.01, signal intensity > 500). Of these differentially expressed miRNAs, 6 miRNAs (miR319a, 319c, miR159, miR164a, miR164c and miR390a) have been previously reported to be involved in dark-induced leaf senescence, and the remaining 38 miRNAs have not been implicated in leaf senescence before. Target genes of all 44 miRNAs were predicted, and some of them, such as NAC1, At3g28690, At2g17640 and At2g45160, were found in the Leaf Senescence Database (LSD). GO and KEGG analysis of 137 miRNAs showed that the predicted target genes were significantly enriched in transcription regulation, development-related biological processes and metabolic pathways. Expression levels of some of the corresponding miRNA targets (At1g73440, At2g03220 and At5g54810) were analysed and found to be significantly different in DP/IDL than that in WT. CONCLUSIONS: A microarray analysis about dark-induced miRNAs involved in leaf senescence are present here. Further expression analysis revealed that some new founding miRNAs maybe regulate leaf senescence in Arabidopsis, and the findings highlight the important role of miRNAs in dark-induced leaf senescence.	Arabidopsis/genetics/ physiology;Arabidopsis Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Darkness;Gene Expression Regulation, Plant;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Plant Leaves/metabolism
Downregulation of microRNA-451 in non-alcoholic steatohepatitis inhibits fatty acid-induced proinflammatory cytokine production through the AMPK/AKT pathway	W. Hur, et al.	2015	25957914	Mechanisms associated with the progression of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) remain unclear. We attempted to identify the pattern of altered gene expression at different time points in a high fat diet (HFD)-induced NAFLD mouse model. The early up-regulated genes are mainly involved in the innate immune responses, while the late up-regulated genes represent the inflammation processes. Although recent studies have shown that microRNAs play important roles in hepatic metabolic functions, the pivotal role of microRNAs in the progression of NAFLD is not fully understood. We investigated the functions of miR-451, which was identified as a target gene in the inflammatory process in NAFLD. miR-451 expression was significantly decreased in the palmitate (PA)-exposed HepG2 cells and in liver tissues of HFD-induced non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) mice. Its decreased expressions were also observed in liver specimens of NASH patients. In vitro analysis of the effect of miR-451 on proinflammatory cytokine provided evidence for negative regulation of PA-induced interleukin (IL)-8 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) production. Furthermore, miR-451 over-expression inhibited translocation of the PA-induced NF-kappaB p65 subunit into the nucleus. Our result showed that Cab39 is a direct target of miRNA-451 in steatotic cells. Further study showed that AMPK activated through Cab39 inhibits NF-kappaB transactivation induced in steatotic HepG2 cells. miR-451 over-expression in steatotic cells significantly suppressed PA-induced inflammatory cytokine. These results provide new insights into the negative regulation of miR-451 in fatty acid-induced inflammation via the AMPK/AKT pathway and demonstrate potential therapeutic applications for miR-451 in preventing the progression from simple steatosis to severely advanced liver disease.	Adenylate Kinase/metabolism;Animals;Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Calcium-Binding Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Cytokines/ biosynthesis;Diet, High-Fat/ adverse effects;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression/immunology;Hep G2 Cells;Humans;Liver/immunology/metabolism;Male;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease/etiology/genetics/ metabolism;Palmitic Acid/pharmacology;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/metabolism;Cab39/MO25;Inflammation;MicroRNA-451;MicroRNAs;Non-alcoholic fatty liver;Non-alcoholic steatohepatitis
Eating less suppresses microRNA assassins in the brain	E. Hutchison and M. P. Mattson	2011	21389350		
Evidence for miR-181 involvement in neuroinflammatory responses of astrocytes	E. R. Hutchison, et al.	2013	23650073	Inflammation is a common component of acute injuries of the central nervous system (CNS) such as ischemia, and degenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. Glial cells play important roles in local CNS inflammation, and an understanding of the roles for microRNAs in glial reactivity in injury and disease settings may therefore lead to the development of novel therapeutic interventions. Here, we show that the miR-181 family is developmentally regulated and present in high amounts in astrocytes compared to neurons. Overexpression of miR-181c in cultured astrocytes results in increased cell death when exposed to lipopolysaccharide (LPS). We show that miR-181 expression is altered by exposure to LPS, a model of inflammation, in both wild-type and transgenic mice lacking both receptors for the inflammatory cytokine TNF-alpha. Knockdown of miR-181 enhanced LPS-induced production of pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-1beta, IL-8) and HMGB1, while overexpression of miR-181 resulted in a significant increase in the expression of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. To assess the effects of miR-181 on the astrocyte transcriptome, we performed gene array and pathway analysis on astrocytes with reduced levels of miR-181b/c. To examine the pool of potential miR-181 targets, we employed a biotin pull-down of miR-181c and gene array analysis. We validated the mRNAs encoding MeCP2 and X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis as targets of miR-181. These findings suggest that miR-181 plays important roles in the molecular responses of astrocytes in inflammatory settings. Further understanding of the role of miR-181 in inflammatory events and CNS injury could lead to novel approaches for the treatment of CNS disorders with an inflammatory component.	Animals;Astrocytes/drug effects/ metabolism;Biotinylation;Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor/pharmacology;Cells, Cultured;Cerebral Cortex/cytology;Cytokines/metabolism;L-Lactate Dehydrogenase/metabolism;Lipopolysaccharides/pharmacology;Male;Methyl-CpG-Binding Protein 2/genetics/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Neuroimmunomodulation/drug effects/ immunology;Neurons/drug effects/metabolism;Receptors, Tumor Necrosis Factor, Type I/deficiency;Receptors, Tumor Necrosis Factor, Type II/deficiency;Transfection;X-Linked Inhibitor of Apoptosis Protein/genetics
The therapeutic potential of microRNAs in nervous system damage, degeneration, and repair	E. R. Hutchison, et al.	2009	19763905	MicroRNAS (miRNAs) have been suggested to play important roles in the central nervous system during development as well as disease. miRNAs appear to be dysregulated in a number of neurodegenerative diseases, developmental disorders, and as a result of stroke. Each miRNA has the ability to regulate hundreds of messenger RNA transcripts, both by causing degradation of the mRNA and by inhibition of protein translation. Recent findings suggest that it may eventually be possible to treat some neurological disorders by restoring or inhibiting miRNAs altered by disease pathology. Both viral delivery and administration of modified oligonucleotides mimicking or inhibiting specific miRNAs have been effective in model systems. Artificial miRNAs have also been generated for the repression of specific transcripts. Alteration of miRNA expression by disease and insult also holds the potential for improved diagnostic tools. Finally, miRNAs have been shown to control cellular proliferation and specification, suggesting that manipulation of miRNAs in cultured cells could result in more convenient generation of pure cell populations for transplantation.	Animals;Central Nervous System/pathology/physiology/physiopathology;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism/therapeutic use;Nerve Regeneration/ physiology;Nervous System Diseases/pathology/physiopathology/therapy;Neurodegenerative Diseases/pathology/physiopathology/therapy;Transduction, Genetic;Trauma, Nervous System/pathology/physiopathology/therapy
The gene silencing transcription factor REST represses miR-132 expression in hippocampal neurons destined to die	J. Y. Hwang, et al.	2014	25108103	The gene silencing transcription factor REST [repressor element 1 silencing transcription factor]/NRSF (neuron-restrictive silencer factor) actively represses a large array of coding and noncoding neuron-specific genes important to synaptic plasticity including miR-132. miR-132 is a neuron-specific microRNA and plays a pivotal role in synaptogenesis, synaptic plasticity and structural remodeling. However, a role for miR-132 in neuronal death is not, as yet, well-delineated. Here we show that ischemic insults promote REST binding and epigenetic remodeling at the miR-132 promoter and silencing of miR-132 expression in selectively vulnerable hippocampal CA1 neurons. REST occupancy was not altered at the miR-9 or miR-124a promoters despite the presence of repressor element 1 sites, indicating REST target specificity. Ischemia induced a substantial decrease in two marks of active gene transcription, dimethylation of lysine 4 on core histone 3 (H3K4me2) and acetylation of lysine 9 on H3 (H3K9ac) at the miR-132 promoter. RNAi-mediated depletion of REST in vivo blocked ischemia-induced loss of miR-132 in insulted hippocampal neurons, consistent with a causal relation between activation of REST and silencing of miR-132. Overexpression of miR-132 in primary cultures of hippocampal neurons or delivered directly into the CA1 of living rats by means of the lentiviral expression system prior to induction of ischemia afforded robust protection against ischemia-induced neuronal death. These findings document a previously unappreciated role for REST-dependent repression of miR-132 in the neuronal death associated with global ischemia and identify a novel therapeutic target for amelioration of the neurodegeneration and cognitive deficits associated with ischemic stroke.	Animals;Blotting, Western;CA1 Region, Hippocampal/cytology/embryology;Cell Death/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation;HEK293 Cells;Histones/metabolism;Humans;Ischemia/physiopathology;Lysine/metabolism;Male;Methylation;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Neurons/cytology/ metabolism;Primary Cell Culture;Promoter Regions, Genetic/genetics;RNA Interference;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Repressor Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;epigenetic modifications;global ischemia;hippocampus;microRNAs;neuronal death
Conserved MicroRNA miR-8/miR-200 and its target USH/FOG2 control growth by regulating PI3K	S. Hyun, et al.	2009	20005803	How body size is determined is a long-standing question in biology, yet its regulatory mechanisms remain largely unknown. Here, we find that a conserved microRNA miR-8 and its target, USH, regulate body size in Drosophila. miR-8 null flies are smaller in size and defective in insulin signaling in fat body that is the fly counterpart of liver and adipose tissue. Fat body-specific expression and clonal analyses reveal that miR-8 activates PI3K, thereby promoting fat cell growth cell-autonomously and enhancing organismal growth non-cell-autonomously. Comparative analyses identify USH and its human homolog, FOG2, as the targets of fly miR-8 and human miR-200, respectively. USH/FOG2 inhibits PI3K activity, suppressing cell growth in both flies and humans. FOG2 directly binds to p85alpha, the regulatory subunit of PI3K, and interferes with the formation of a PI3K complex. Our study identifies two novel regulators of insulin signaling, miR-8/miR-200 and USH/FOG2, and suggests their roles in adolescent growth, aging, and cancer.	Adipose Tissue/metabolism;Animals;Body Size;DNA-Binding Proteins/metabolism;Drosophila Proteins;Drosophila melanogaster/genetics/ physiology;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Mutation;Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases/ metabolism;Transcription Factors/metabolism
MicroRNAs in C. elegans Aging: Molecular Insurance for Robustness?	C. Ibanez-Ventoso and M. Driscoll	2009	19881908	The last decade has witnessed a revolution in our appreciation of the extensive regulatory gene expression networks modulated by small untranslated RNAs. microRNAs (miRNAs), ~22 nt RNAs that bind imperfectly to partially homologous sites on target mRNAs to regulate transcript expression, are now known to influence a broad range of biological processes germane to development, homeostatic regulation and disease. It has been proposed that miRNAs ensure biological robustness, and aging has been described as a progressive loss of system and cellular robustness, but relatively little work to date has addressed roles of miRNAs in longevity and healthspan (the period of youthful vigor and disease resistance that precedes debilitating decline in basic functions). The C. elegans model is highly suitable for testing hypotheses regarding miRNA impact on aging biology: the lifespan of the animal is approximately three weeks, there exist a wealth of genetic mutations that alter lifespan through characterized pathways, biomarkers that report strong healthspan have been defined, and many miRNA genes have been identified, expression-profiled, and knocked out. 50/114 C. elegans miRNAs change in abundance during adult life, suggesting significant potential to modulate healthspan and lifespan. Indeed, miRNA lin-4 has been elegantly shown to influence lifespan and healthspan via its lin-14 mRNA target and the insulin signaling pathway. 27 of the C. elegans age-regulated miRNAs have sequence similarity with both fly and human miRNAs. We review current understanding of a field poised to reveal major insights into potentially conserved miRNA-regulated networks that modulate aging.	Caenorhabditis elegans;healthspan;lipofuscin;longevity.;miRNA;sarcopenia
Modulated microRNA expression during adult lifespan in Caenorhabditis elegans	C. Ibanez-Ventoso, et al.	2006	16842496	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, abundant transcripts that can bind partially homologous target messages to inhibit their translation in animal cells. miRNAs have been shown to affect a broad spectrum of biological activities, including developmental fate determination, cell signaling and oncogenesis. Little is known, however, of miRNA contributions to aging. We examined the expression of 114 identified Caenorhabditis elegans miRNAs during the adult lifespan and find that 34 miRNAs exhibit changes in expression during adulthood (P<or= 0.05), 31 with more than a twofold level change. The majority of age-regulated miRNAs decline in relative abundance as animals grow older. Expression profiles of developmental timing regulators lin-4 and let-7 miRNAs, as well as conserved muscle miRNA miR-1, show regulation during adulthood. We also used bioinformatic approaches to predict miRNA targets encoded in the C. elegans genome and we highlight candidate miRNA-regulated genes among C. elegans genes previously shown to affect longevity, genes encoding insulin-like ligands, and genes preferentially expressed in C. elegans muscle. Our observations identify miRNAs as potential modulators of age-related decline and suggest a general reduction of message-specific translational inhibition during aging, a previously undescribed feature of C. elegans aging. Since many C. elegans age-regulated miRNAs are conserved across species, our observations identify candidate age-regulating miRNAs in both nematodes and humans.	Animals;Caenorhabditis elegans/ genetics/ physiology;Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation;Health;Insulin/genetics;Longevity/ genetics/physiology;MicroRNAs/ genetics/isolation & purification;Muscle, Skeletal/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Repressor Proteins/genetics;Time Factors
miR-378a-3p modulates tamoxifen sensitivity in breast cancer MCF-7 cells through targeting GOLT1A	K. Ikeda, et al.	2015	26255816	Breast cancer is a hormone-dependent cancer and usually treated with endocrine therapy using aromatase inhibitors or anti-estrogens such as tamoxifen. A majority of breast cancer, however, will often fail to respond to endocrine therapy. In the present study, we explored miRNAs associated with endocrine therapy resistance in breast cancer. High-throughput miRNA sequencing was performed using RNAs prepared from breast cancer MCF-7 cells and their derivative clones as endocrine therapy resistant cell models, including tamoxifen-resistant (TamR) and long-term estrogen-deprived (LTED) MCF-7 cells. Notably, miR-21 was the most abundantly expressed miRNA in MCF-7 cells and overexpressed in TamR and LTED cells. We found that miR-378a-3p expression was downregulated in TamR and LTED cells as well as in clinical breast cancer tissues. Additionally, lower expression levels of miR-378a-3p were associated with poor prognosis for tamoxifen-treated patients with breast cancer. GOLT1A was selected as one of the miR-378a-3p candidate target genes by in silico analysis. GOLT1A was overexpressed in breast cancer specimens and GOLT1A-specific siRNAs inhibited the growth of TamR cells. Low GOLT1A levels were correlated with better survival in patients with breast cancer. These results suggest that miR-378a-3p-dependent GOLT1A expression contributes to the mechanisms underlying breast cancer endocrine resistance.	3' Untranslated Regions;Antineoplastic Agents, Hormonal/therapeutic use/ toxicity;Base Sequence;Breast Neoplasms/drug therapy/mortality/pathology;Cell Survival/drug effects;Disease-Free Survival;Drug Resistance, Neoplasm/drug effects;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/ drug effects;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Humans;MCF-7 Cells;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;RNA/chemistry/isolation & purification/metabolism;RNA Interference;RNA, Double-Stranded/metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/metabolism;Sequence Analysis, DNA;Tamoxifen/therapeutic use/ toxicity;Vesicular Transport Proteins/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/metabolism
Plasma biomarkers for distinguishing etiologic subtypes of thoracic aortic aneurysm disease	J. S. Ikonomidis, et al.	2013	23312977	BACKGROUND: Thoracic aortic aneurysms (TAAs) develop through an asymptomatic process resulting in gross dilation that progresses to rupture if left undetected and untreated. If detected, patients with TAA are followed over time until the risk of rupture outweighs the risk of surgical repair. Current methodologies for tracking TAA size are limited to expensive computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging because no acceptable population screening tools are currently available. Previous studies from this laboratory and others have identified differential protein profiles for the matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and their endogenous tissue inhibitors (TIMPs), in ascending TAA tissue from patients with bicuspid aortic valves (BAVs), versus patients with idiopathic degenerative disease and a tricuspid aortic valve (TAV). In addition, altered microRNA (miR) expression levels have also been reported in TAAs compared with normal aortic tissue. The objective of our study was to identify circulating factors within plasma that could serve as potential biomarkers for distinguishing etiologic subtypes of aneurysm disease. METHODS: Ascending TAA tissue and plasma specimens were obtained from patients with BAV (n = 21) and TAV (n = 21) at the time of surgical resection. The protein abundance of key MMPs (1, 2, 3, 8, and 9), TIMPs (1, 2, 3, and 4), and miRs (1, 21, 29a, 133a, 143, and 145) was examined using a multianalyte protein profiling system or by quantitative polymerase chain reaction, respectively. Results were compared with normal aortic tissue and plasma obtained from patients without aortic disease (n = 10). RESULTS: Significant (P < .05) differences in standardized miR-1 and miR-21 abundance between BAV and TAV aortic tissue samples and different tissue and plasma profiles of analyte differences from normal aorta where observed between the BAV and TAV groups. Linear regression analysis revealed significant linear relationships in plasma and tissue measurements only for MMP-8 and TIMP-1, TIMP-3, and TIMP-4 (P < .05). Receiver operator curve analysis revealed specific cassettes of analytes predictive of TAA disease. Relative to normal aorta, BAV proteolytic balance was significantly increased for MMP-1, MMP-2, and MMP-7, and for decreased MMP-8 and MMP-9. In contrast, TAV proteolytic balance relative to normal aorta was significantly increased only for MMP-1 and decreased for MMP-8 and MMP-9. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, these unique data demonstrate differential plasma profiles of MMPs, TIMPs, and miRs in ascending TAA specimens from patients with BAV and TAV. These results suggest that circulating biomarkers may form the foundation for a broader platform of biomarkers capable of detecting the presence of TAA using a simple blood test and may also be useful in personalized strategies to distinguish between etiologic subtypes of TAAs in patients with aneurysm disease.	Aortic Aneurysm, Thoracic/ blood/etiology/genetics;Biomarkers/blood;Case-Control Studies;Diagnosis, Differential;Humans;Linear Models;Logistic Models;Matrix Metalloproteinases/ blood;MicroRNAs/ blood;Predictive Value of Tests;Prognosis;Protein Array Analysis;ROC Curve;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Risk Factors;Sensitivity and Specificity;Tissue Inhibitor of Metalloproteinases/ blood
A single-base substitution in the seed region of miR-184 causes EDICT syndrome	B. W. Iliff, et al.	2012	22131394	PURPOSE: To investigate the cause of the syndrome characterized by endothelial dystrophy, iris hypoplasia, congenital cataract, and stromal thinning (EDICT). METHODS: Previously a multigenerational family was reported that comprised 10 individuals affected by syndromal anterior segment dysgenesis. Blood samples were re-collected from eight affected and two unaffected individuals, and genomic DNA was extracted. A total of 24 candidate genes and 4 microRNAs residing within the critical interval were sequenced bidirectionally. In silico analyses were performed to examine the effect of the causal variant on the stability of the pre-microRNA structure. RESULTS: Bidirectional sequencing identified the single-base substitution +57C>T in miR-184. This variation segregated with the disease phenotype and was absent in the 1000 Genomes project, 1130 control chromosomes, and 28 nonhuman vertebrates. CONCLUSIONS: The single-base-pair substitution in the seed region of miR-184 is responsible for the disease phenotype observed in EDICT syndrome.	Cataract/ congenital;Corneal Dystrophies, Hereditary/ genetics;Corneal Stroma/pathology;Endothelium, Corneal/pathology;Eye Abnormalities/ genetics;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/genetics;Gene Library;Humans;Iris/ abnormalities;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Pedigree;Phenotype;Polymerase Chain Reaction;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Syndrome
Polyamines release the let-7b-mediated suppression of initiation codon recognition during the protein synthesis of EXT2	M. Imamura, et al.	2016	27650265	Proteoglycans (PGs), a family of glycosaminoglycan (GAG)-protein glycoconjugates, contribute to animal physiology through interactions between their glycan chains and growth factors, chemokines and adhesion molecules. However, it remains unclear how GAG structures are changed during the aging process. Here, we found that polyamine levels are correlated with the expression level of heparan sulfate (HS) in human skin. In cultured cell lines, the EXT1 and EXT2 enzymes, initiating HS biosynthesis, were stimulated at the translational level by polyamines. Interestingly, the initiation codon recognition by 43S preinitiation complex during EXT2 translation is suppressed by let-7b, a member of the let-7 microRNA family, through binding at the N-terminal amino acid coding sequence in EXT2 mRNA. Let-7b-mediated suppression of initiation codon depends on the length of 5'-UTR of EXT2 mRNA and its suppression is inhibited in the presence of polyamines. These findings provide new insights into the HS biosynthesis related to miRNA and polyamines.	
Characterization and miRNA-mediated posttranscriptional regulation of vitelline membrane outer layer protein I in the adult chicken oviduct	S. In Lee, et al.	2015	25381035	The laying hen is the best model for oviduct growth and development. The chicken oviduct produces the egg components, including the egg white and eggshell. However, the mechanism of egg component production during oviduct development requires further investigation. Vitelline membrane outer layer protein 1 (VMO-1) is found in the outer layer of the vitelline membrane of avian eggs. Comparison of the chicken VMO-1 protein-coding sequence and the human, mouse, rat, and bovine VMO-1 proteins via multiple sequence alignment analysis revealed high degrees of homology of 55%, 53%, 48%, and 54%, respectively. Although the avian homologue of VMO-1 is highly expressed in the magnum of the oviduct, little is known about the transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulation of VMO-1 during oviduct development. The results of this study revealed that estrogen induces VMO-1 messenger RNA (mRNA) expression in oviduct cells in vitro. The expression of genes interacting with VMO-1 by RNA interference (RNAi) functional analysis revealed that ovomucin expression was decreased by VMO-1 silencing. In addition, gga-miR-1623, 1552-3p, and 1651-3p influenced VMO-1 expression via its 3'-UTR, suggesting the posttranscriptional regulation of VMO-1 expression in chickens. Collectively, these results suggest that VMO-1 is an estrogen-induced gene that is posttranscriptionally regulated by microRNAs (miRNAs). The present study may contribute to an understanding of egg component production during chicken oviduct development.	Aging/genetics;Amino Acid Sequence;Animals;Avian Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Base Sequence;Chickens/ genetics/ growth & development;Databases, Nucleic Acid;Estradiol/pharmacology;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Genome;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Oviducts/drug effects/growth & development/ metabolism;Phylogeny;Reproducibility of Results;Sequence Alignment;Sequence Analysis, Protein;Transcription, Genetic/drug effects;Vitelline Membrane/drug effects/ metabolism
Novel microRNAs differentially expressed during aging in the mouse brain	S. Inukai, et al.	2012	22844398	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small RNA molecules that regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally. Work in Caenorhabditis elegans has shown that specific miRNAs function in lifespan regulation and in a variety of age-associated pathways, but the roles of miRNAs in the aging of vertebrates are not well understood. We examined the expression of small RNAs in whole brains of young and old mice by deep sequencing and report here on the expression of 558 known miRNAs and identification of 41 novel miRNAs. Of these miRNAs, 75 known and 18 novel miRNAs exhibit greater than 2.0-fold expression changes. The majority of expressed miRNAs in our study decline in relative abundance in the aged brain, in agreement with trends observed in other miRNA studies in aging tissues and organisms. Target prediction analysis suggests that many of our novel aging-associated miRNAs target genes in the insulin signaling pathway, a central node of aging-associated genetic networks. These novel miRNAs may thereby regulate aging-related functions in the brain. Since many mouse miRNAs are conserved in humans, the aging-affected brain miRNAs we report here may represent novel regulatory genes that also function during aging in the human brain.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Base Sequence;Brain/cytology/ metabolism/physiology;Cloning, Molecular;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Male;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Reproducibility of Results;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Signal Transduction/genetics;Transcriptome
Lycopene attenuated hepatic tumorigenesis via differential mechanisms depending on carotenoid cleavage enzyme in mice	B. C. Ip, et al.	2014	25293877	Obesity is associated with increased liver cancer risks and mortality. We recently showed that apo-10'-lycopenoic acid, a lycopene metabolite generated by beta-carotene-9',10'-oxygenase (BCO2), inhibited carcinogen-initiated, high-fat diet (HFD)-promoted liver inflammation, and hepatic tumorigenesis development. The present investigation examined the outstanding question of whether lycopene could suppress HFD-promoted hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) progression, and if BCO2 expression is important using BCO2-knockout (BCO2-KO) and wild-type male mice. Results showed that lycopene supplementation (100 mg/kg diet) for 24 weeks resulted in comparable accumulation of hepatic lycopene (19.4 vs. 18.2 nmol/g) and had similar effects on suppressing HFD-promoted HCC incidence (19% vs. 20%) and multiplicity (58% vs. 62%) in wild-type and BCO2-KO mice, respectively. Intriguingly, lycopene chemopreventive effects in wild-type mice were associated with reduced hepatic proinflammatory signaling (phosphorylation of NK-kappaB p65 and STAT3; IL6 protein) and inflammatory foci. In contrast, the protective effects of lycopene in BCO2-KO but not in wild-type mice were associated with reduced hepatic endoplasmic reticulum stress-mediated unfolded protein response (ER(UPR)), through decreasing ER(UPR)-mediated protein kinase RNA-activated like kinase-eukaryotic initiation factor 2alpha activation, and inositol requiring 1alpha-X-box-binding protein 1 signaling. Lycopene supplementation in BCO2-KO mice suppressed oncogenic signals, including Met mRNA, beta-catenin protein, and mTOR complex 1 activation, which was associated with increased hepatic microRNA (miR)-199a/b and miR214 levels. These results provided novel experimental evidence that dietary lycopene can prevent HFD-promoted HCC incidence and multiplicity in mice, and may elicit different mechanisms depending on BCO2 expression.	Animals;Anticarcinogenic Agents/ administration & dosage;Blotting, Western;Carcinoma, Hepatocellular/metabolism/pathology/ prevention & control;Carotenoids/ administration & dosage;Cell Transformation, Neoplastic;Diet, High-Fat;Dietary Supplements;Dioxygenases/ physiology;Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress/drug effects;Humans;Immunoenzyme Techniques;Liver Neoplasms/metabolism/pathology/ prevention & control;Male;Mice;Mice, Knockout;Phosphorylation/drug effects;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction;Tumor Cells, Cultured
MicroRNA mir-34 provides robustness to environmental stress response via the DAF-16 network in C. elegans	M. Isik, et al.	2016	27905558	Diverse stresses and aging alter expression levels of microRNAs, suggesting a role for these posttranscriptional regulators of gene expression in stress modulation and longevity. Earlier studies demonstrated a central role for the miR-34 family in promoting cell cycle arrest and cell death following stress in human cells. However, the biological significance of this response was unclear. Here we show that in C. elegans mir-34 upregulation is necessary for developmental arrest, correct morphogenesis, and adaptation to a lower metabolic state to protect animals against stress-related damage. Either deletion or overexpression of mir-34 lead to an impaired stress response, which can largely be explained by perturbations in DAF-16/FOXO target gene expression. We demonstrate that mir-34 expression is regulated by the insulin signaling pathway via a negative feedback loop between miR-34 and DAF-16/FOXO. We propose that mir-34 provides robustness to stress response programs by controlling noise in the DAF-16/FOXO-regulated gene network.	
Graphene oxide modified single-use electrodes and their application for voltammetric miRNA analysis	D. Isin, et al.	2017	28415412	The modification of graphene oxide (GO) onto the surfaces of chemically activated pencil graphite electrodes (PGEs) was performed herein, and then these electrodes were applied for the first time on voltammetric monitoring of miRNAs. The specific recognition of miRNA-34a, which has been related to Alzheimer disease, was explored in the presence of DNA-RNA hybridization by using CA/GO/PGEs in combination with differential pulse voltammetry (DPV) technique. The characterization of CA/GO/PGE was investigated by cyclic voltammetry (CV), electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS), and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). The effect of GO concentration, DNA probe concentration and miRNA-34a concentration upon to biosensor response was optimized, and accordingly, the selectivity of miRNA-34a biosensor was tested under the optimum conditions.	Alzheimer disease;Differential pulse voltammetry;Electrochemical biosensor;Graphene oxide;Pencil graphite electrode;miRNA
miR-141, a new player, joins the senescence orchestra	Y. Itahana, et al.	2013	24189529		Cell Aging/ genetics;Fibroblasts/ physiology;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Polycomb Repressive Complex 1/ metabolism;Bmi1;miR-141;miR-200c;microRNA;p16;p16-pRb pathway;senescence;tumor suppression
MicroRNA-155 promotes G-CSF-induced mobilization of murine hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells via propagation of CXCL12 signaling	T. Itkin, et al.	2017	28174416		
MicroRNA-34a regulation of endothelial senescence	T. Ito, et al.	2010	20627091	Endothelial senescence is thought to play a role in cardiovascular diseases such as atherosclerosis. We hypothesized that endothelial microRNAs (miRNAs) regulate endothelial survival and senescence. We found that miR-34a is highly expressed in primary endothelial cells. We observed that miR-34a expression increases in senescent human umbilical cord vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) and in heart and spleen of older mice. MiR-34a over-expression induces endothelial cell senescence and also suppresses cell proliferation by inhibiting cell cycle progression. Searching for how miR-34a affects senescence, we discovered that SIRT1 is a target of miR-34a. Over-expressing miR-34a inhibits SIRT1 protein expression, and knocking down miR-34a enhances SIRT1 expression. MiR-34a triggers endothelial senescence in part through SIRT1, since forced expression of SIRT1 blocks the ability of miR-34a to induce senescence. Our data suggest that miR-34a contributes to endothelial senescence through suppression of SIRT1.	Animals;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Cycle/genetics;Cells, Cultured;Endothelium, Vascular/ physiology;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Myocardium/cytology/metabolism;Sirtuin 1/ genetics;Spleen/cytology/metabolism
MicroRNA-494 plays a role in fiber type-specific skeletal myogenesis in human induced pluripotent stem cells	H. Iwasaki, et al.	2015	26519878	Mitochondrial oxidative capacity in skeletal muscle is known to decrease in diabetic patients, and sarcopenia is a risk factor for diabetes, particularly in elderly people. We previously revealed that microRNA (miR)-494 inhibits mitochondrial biogenesis during myogenic differentiation in murine C2C12 cells and others reported that exercise regulates miR-494 levels in obese sedentary individuals with increased risk of type 2 diabetes. In this study, to investigate the therapeutic potential of miR-494, we first investigated the role of miR-494 during human skeletal myogenesis. Using human induced pluripotent stem (hiPS) cells stably transfected with the Tet/ON-myogenic differentiation 1(MYOD1) gene (MyoD-hiPS cells), we found that miR-494 expression transiently increased and was downregulated after myogenic induction. In miR-494 transfected MyoD-hiPS cells, the level of high oxidative fiber (type IIa) marker proteins specifically decreased, while no change in the total number of cells was observed. In contrast, the expression of both type I and type IIx markers was unaffected by miR-494 overexpression. Furthermore, miR-494 overexpression suppressed basal oxygen consumption rate concomitant with the inhibition of myotube formation and without significant effects on the mitochondrial content. These results suggest that miR-494 plays a novel role in the fiber type-specific skeletal myogenesis in MyoD-hiPS cells, distinct from murine C2C12 myogenesis.	Cell Line;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Humans;Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells/cytology/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Mitochondria, Muscle/metabolism;Muscle Development;Muscle Fibers, Skeletal/cytology/ metabolism;Muscle, Skeletal/ growth & development/metabolism;Up-Regulation;Human skeletal myogenesis;Induced pluripotent stem cell;Myosin heavy chain;miR-494
Satb2 determines miRNA expression and long-term memory in the adult central nervous system	C. Jaitner, et al.	2016	27897969	SATB2 is a risk locus for schizophrenia and encodes a DNA-binding protein that regulates higher-order chromatin configuration. In the adult brain Satb2 is almost exclusively expressed in pyramidal neurons of two brain regions important for memory formation, the cerebral cortex and the CA1-hippocampal field. Here we show that Satb2 is required for key hippocampal functions since deletion of Satb2 from the adult mouse forebrain prevents the stabilization of synaptic long-term potentiation and markedly impairs long-term fear and object discrimination memory. At the molecular level, we find that synaptic activity and BDNF up-regulate Satb2, which itself binds to the promoters of coding and non-coding genes. Satb2 controls the hippocampal levels of a large cohort of miRNAs, many of which are implicated in synaptic plasticity and memory formation. Together, our findings demonstrate that Satb2 is critically involved in long-term plasticity processes in the adult forebrain that underlie the consolidation and stabilization of context-linked memory.	Ltp;chromatin;chromosomes;genes;long-term memory;miRNA;mouse;neuroscience;synaptic plasticity
Direct intracerebral delivery of a miR-33 antisense oligonucleotide into mouse brain increases brain ABCA1 expression. [Corrected]	A. Jan, et al.	2015	25957561	The ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) is a membrane bound protein that serves to efflux cholesterol and phospholipids onto lipid poor apolipoproteins during HDL biogenesis. Increasing the expression and activity of ABCA1 have beneficial effects in experimental models of various neurologic and cardiovascular diseases including Alzheimer's disease. Despite the beneficial effects of liver X receptor (LXR) agonists--compounds that increase ABCA1 expression--in preclinical studies, their therapeutic utility is limited by systemic adverse effects on lipid metabolism. Interestingly, microRNA-33 (miR-33) inhibition increases ABCA1 expression and activity in rodents and non-human primates without severe metabolic adverse effects. Herein, we demonstrate that treatment of cultured mouse neurons, astrocytes and microglia with an antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) targeting miR-33 increased ABCA1 expression, which was accompanied by increased cholesterol efflux and apoE secretion in astrocytic cultures. We also show that intracerebral delivery of an ASO targeting miR-33 leads to increased ABCA1 expression in cerebral cortex or subcortical structures such as hippocampus. These findings highlight an effective strategy for increasing brain ABCA1 expression/activity for relevant mechanistic studies. [Corrected]	ATP Binding Cassette Transporter 1/ metabolism;Animals;Apolipoproteins E/metabolism;Astrocytes/drug effects/metabolism;Brain/ drug effects/metabolism;Cell Line;Cholesterol/metabolism;Injections, Intraventricular;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ antagonists & inhibitors/genetics;Microglia/drug effects/metabolism;Neurons/drug effects/metabolism;Oligonucleotides, Antisense/ pharmacology;Primary Cell Culture;Abca1;Alzheimer's disease;Antisense oligonucleotides;Intracerebral infusion;MicroRNA-33
Nuclear Ago2/HSP60 contributes to broad spectrum of hATSCs function via Oct4 regulation	J. H. Jang, et al.	2012	21995449	AIMS: Argonaute2 (Ago2) plays a fundamental role in microRNA-mediated gene regulation through its intrinsic endonuclease activity. In this study we demonstrate the novel functions and molecular mechanisms by which nuclear Ago2 directly regulates HSP (heat shock protein) 60 expression and stem cell self-renewal. HSP60 is a crucial regulator of ROS (reactive oxygen species), senescence, and apoptotic cell death in several tissues and cell types. RESULTS: HSP60 is regulated via inactivation of p38/JNK and p53 and binds directly to the regulatory regions of the TERT, c-myc, GPx3, p53, and STAT3 genes. Using HSP60 CHIP-PCR experiments, we show that HSP60 binds directly to the Oct4 and Nanog genes and directly regulates Oct4 and other stemness genes involved in human adipose tissue-derived stem cell (hATSC) differentiation. HSP60 also positively regulates ROS-scavenging factors, including GPx3 and TXNL1, which directly modulate cytosolic ROS in hATSCs. Moreover, our study shows that Oct4 regulates HSP60 expression and controls hATSC survival and self-renewal after binding to the HSP60 gene. Furthermore, HSP60-mediated regulation of Oct4 contributes to neuronal and endodermal beta-cell differentiation of hATSCs in vitro and in vivo and downregulates mesoderm-specific gene expression. INNOVATION AND CONCLUSION: We show that increased levels of Ago2 or HSP60 effectively induce nuclear localization of HSP60, which directly controls Oct4, c-Myc, p53, TERT, and STAT3 for transdifferentiation programs. Collectively, we suggest a novel model in which nuclear Ago2 controls HSP60 in hATSCs.	Aging;Argonaute Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Cell Death;Cell Differentiation;Cell Nucleus/ genetics/metabolism;Cell Proliferation;Cell Survival;Chaperonin 60/genetics/ metabolism;Humans;Octamer Transcription Factor-3/genetics/ metabolism;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Stem Cells/cytology/ metabolism
miR-339-5p regulates the p53 tumor-suppressor pathway by targeting MDM2	M. D. Jansson, et al.	2015	24882579	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate many key cancer-relevant pathways and may themselves possess oncogenic or tumor-suppressor functions. Consequently, miRNA dysregulation has been shown to be a prominent feature in many human cancers. The p53 tumor suppressor acts as a negative regulator of cell proliferation in response to stress and represents the most commonly lost and mutated gene in human cancers. The function of p53 is inhibited by the MDM2 oncoprotein. Using a high-throughput screening approach, we identified miR-339-5p as a regulator of the p53 pathway. We demonstrate that this regulation occurs via the ability of miR-339-5p to target directly the 3'-untranslated region of MDM2 mRNA, reducing MDM2 expression and thus promoting p53 function. Consequently, overexpression of miR-339-5p positively impacts on p53-governed cellular responses such as proliferation arrest and senescence, whereas inhibition of miR-339-5p function perturbs the p53 response in cancer cells, allowing an increased proliferation rate. In addition, miR-339-5p expression is downregulated in tumors harboring wild-type TP53, suggesting that reduction of miR-339-5p level helps to suppress the p53 response in p53-competent tumor cells. Furthermore, we show that a negative correlation between miR-339-5p and MDM2 expression exists in human cancer, implying that the interaction is important for cancer development.	Breast Neoplasms/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation/physiology;Down-Regulation;Female;HEK293 Cells;Humans;MCF-7 Cells;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-mdm2/genetics/ metabolism;Transfection;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/ metabolism
Differentiation Induces Dramatic Changes in miRNA Profile, Where Loss of Dicer Diverts Differentiating SH-SY5Y Cells Toward Senescence	A. Jauhari, et al.	2016	27525675	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are generated by endonuclease activity of Dicer, which also helps in loading of miRNAs to their target sequences. SH-SY5Y, a human neuroblastoma and a cellular model of neurodevelopment, consistently expresses genes related to neurodegenerative disorders at different biological levels (DNA, RNA, and proteins). Using SH-SY5Y cells, we have studied the role of Dicer and miRNAs in neuronal differentiation and explored involvement of P53, a master regulator of gene expression in differentiation-induced induction of miRNAs. Knocking down Dicer gene induced senescence in differentiating SH-SY5Y cells, which indicate the essential role of Dicer in brain development. Differentiation of SH-SY5Y cells by retinoic acid (RA) or RA + brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) induced dramatic changes in global miRNA expression. Fully differentiated SH-SY5Y cells (5-day RA followed by 3-day BDNF) significantly (p < 0.05 and atleast >3-fold change) upregulated and downregulated the expression of 77 and 17 miRNAs, respectively. Maximum increase was observed in the expression of miR-193-5p, miR-199a-5p, miR-192, miR-145, miR-28-5p, miR-29b, and miR-222 after RA exposure and miR-193-5p, miR-146a, miR-21, miR-199a-5p, miR-153, miR-29b, and miR-222 after RA + BDNF exposure in SH-SY5Y cells. Exploring the role of P53 in differentiating SH-SY5Y cells, we have observed that induction of miR-222, miR-192, and miR-145 is P53 dependent and expression of miR-193a-5p, miR-199a-5p, miR-146a, miR-21, miR-153, and miR-29b is P53 independent. In conclusion, decreased Dicer level enforces differentiating cells to senescence, and differentiating SH-SY5Y cells needs increased expression of P53 to cope up with changes in protein levels of mature neurons.	Dicer;MicroRNAs;Neuronal differentiation;P53;Sh-sy5y;Senescence
Regulation of miR-34 Family in Neuronal Development	A. Jauhari, et al.	2017	28084588	Differentiation of neural stem cells (NSC's) to mature and functional neurons requires coordinated expression of mRNA, microRNAs (miRNAs) and regulatory proteins. Our earlier unbiased miRNA profiling studies have identified miR-200, miR-34 and miR-221/222 as maximally up-regulated miRNA families in differentiating PC12 cells and demonstrated the capability of miR-200 family in inducing neuronal differentiation (J. Neurochem, 2015, 133, 640-652). In present study, we have investigated role of miR-34 family in neuronal differentiation and identified P53 as mediator of nerve growth factor (NGF) induced miR-34a expression in differentiating PC12 cells. Our studies have shown that NGF induced miR-34a, arrests proliferating PC12 cells to G1 phase, which is pre-requisite for neuronal differentiation. Our studies have also shown that increased expression of miR-34a controls the P53 level in differentiated PC12 cells in feedback inhibition manner, which probably prevents differentiated cells from P53 induced apoptosis. Expression profiling of miR-34 family in different neuronal, non-neuronal and developing cells have identified differentiated and aged brain cells as richest source of miR-34, which also indicates that higher expression of miR-34 family helps in maintaining the mature neurons in non-proliferative stage. In conclusion, our studies have shown that miR-34 is brain enriched miRNA family, which up-regulates with neuronal maturation and brain ageing and co-operative regulation of P53 and miR-34a helps in neuronal differentiation by arresting cells in G1 phase.	Cell cycle arrest;Neuronal differentiation;P53;PC12 cells;miR-34;microRNAs
Presenilin 2 influences miR146 level and activity in microglia	S. Jayadev, et al.	2013	23952003	Microglia, the resident innate immune cells of the CNS, are the primary defenders against microbes and critical to CNS remodeling. Dysregulation of microglial behavior can lead to unchecked pro-inflammatory activity and subsequent neurodegeneration. The molecular mechanisms leading to chronic inflammation and microglial dysfunction in neurodegenerative diseases are not well-understood. It is known that patients with Presenilin 2 (PS2) mutations develop autosomal dominant Alzheimer disease. We have shown that a lack of normal PS2 function is associated with exaggerated microglia pro-inflammatory responses in vitro. To identify pathways by which PS2 regulates microglia and determine how PS2 dysfunction may lead to altered inflammatory pathways, we pursued an unbiased array approach to assess differential expression of microRNAs between murine PS2 knockout (KO) and wild-type microglia. We identified miR146, a negative regulator of monocyte pro-inflammatory response, as constitutively down-regulated in PS2 KO microglia. Consistent with a state of miR146 suppression, we found that PS2 KO microglia express higher levels of the miR146 target protein interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1, and have increased NFkappaB transcriptional activity. We hypothesize that PS2 impacts microglial responses through modulation of miR146a. PS2 dysfunction, through aging or mutation, may contribute to neurodegeneration by influencing the pro-inflammatory behavior of microglia. Presenilin 2 (PS2), a membrane associated protease, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease. We have previously shown that PS2 plays an important role in curbing the proinflammatory response in microglia. Here, we report the novel finding that PS2 participates in maintaining the basal and cytokine induced expression of the innate immunity regulating microRNA, miR146. These data suggest one mechanism by which PS2 works to reign in proinflammatory microglial behavior and that PS2 dysfunction or deficiency could thus result in unchecked proinflammatory activation contributing to neurodegeneration.	Animals;Animals, Newborn;Interleukin-1 Receptor-Associated Kinases/genetics/immunology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/immunology/ metabolism;Microglia/cytology/ immunology;NF-kappa B/immunology/metabolism;Presenilin-2/ genetics/immunology;Primary Cell Culture;Transcription, Genetic/immunology;Alzheimer disease;miR146;microglia;neuroinflammation;presenilin
MicroRNA-22 increases senescence and activates cardiac fibroblasts in the aging heart	V. Jazbutyte, et al.	2013	22538858	MicroRNAs (miRs) are small non- coding RNA molecules controlling a plethora of biological processes such as development, cellular survival and senescence. We here determined miRs differentially regulated during cardiac postnatal development and aging. Cardiac function, morphology and miR expression profiles were determined in neonatal, 4 weeks, 6 months and 19 months old normotensive male healthy C57/Bl6N mice. MiR-22 was most prominently upregulated during cardiac aging. Cardiac expression of its bioinformatically predicted target mimecan (osteoglycin, OGN) was gradually decreased with advanced age. Luciferase reporter assays validated mimecan as a bona fide miR-22 target. Both, miR-22 and its target mimecan were co- expressed in cardiac fibroblasts and smooth muscle cells. Functionally, miR-22 overexpression induced cellular senescence and promoted migratory activity of cardiac fibroblasts. Small interference RNA-mediated silencing of mimecan in cardiac fibroblasts mimicked the miR-22-mediated effects. Rescue experiments revealed that the effects of miR-22 on cardiac fibroblasts were only partially mediated by mimecan. In conclusion, miR-22 upregulation in the aging heart contributed at least partly to accelerated cardiac fibroblast senescence and increased migratory activity. Our results suggest an involvement of miR-22 in age-associated cardiac changes, such as cardiac fibrosis.	Aging/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Animals;Animals, Newborn;Fibroblasts/metabolism/ pathology;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;Polymerase Chain Reaction;RNA/ genetics;Up-Regulation/ genetics
MicroRNA 486 is a potentially novel target for the treatment of spinal cord injury	M. K. Jee, et al.	2012	22466292	MicroRNAs have been shown to effectively regulate gene expression at the translational level. Recently, we identified novel microRNAs that were upregulated in a mouse model of spinal cord injury. Among those, we have focused on microRNA 486, which directly represses NeuroD6 expression through a conserved sequence in its untranslated region. We correlated the overexpression of microRNA 486 in motor neurons with a poor outcome due to progressive neurodegeneration and a pathophysiology that is mediated by reactive oxygen species. The expression of microRNA 486 was induced by reactive oxygen species that were produced by inflammatory factors, and reactive oxygen species were accumulated in response to the knockdown of NeuroD6, which enhances the downregulation of glutathione peroxidase 3 and thioredoxin-like 1 after traumatic spinal cord injury. NeuroD6 directly bound to regulatory regions of thioredoxin-like 1 and glutathione peroxidase 3 in motor neurons and activated their expression, which promoted reactive oxygen species scavenging. Moreover, knocking down microRNA 486 induced the expression of NeuroD6, which effectively ameliorated the spinal cord injury and allowed the mice to recover motor function. The infusion of exogenic NeuroD6 in spinal cord injury lesions effectively blocked apoptosis by reactivating thioredoxin-like 1 and glutathione peroxidase 3, which was accompanied by a recovery of motor function. Collectively, these findings have identified a novel microRNA in spinal cord injury lesions called microRNA 486, demonstrating a new role for NeuroD6 in neuroprotection, and suggest a potential therapeutic target for spinal cord injuries.	Adenosine Triphosphate/metabolism;Analysis of Variance;Animals;Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;Caspase 3/metabolism;Cells, Cultured;Cytokines/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects/ physiology;Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred ICR;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Motor Activity/drug effects;Motor Neurons/drug effects/metabolism;Myelin Basic Protein/metabolism;Nerve Degeneration/drug therapy/etiology/metabolism;Neural Stem Cells/drug effects/metabolism;Neurofilament Proteins/metabolism;Nitric Oxide Synthase Type II/metabolism;Nitric Oxide Synthase Type III/metabolism;Oligodeoxyribonucleotides, Antisense/pharmacology;Peroxidase/metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/pharmacology;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Recovery of Function/drug effects/genetics/physiology;Spinal Cord Injuries/ metabolism/physiopathology/ therapy;Time Factors
Silencing of miR20a is crucial for Ngn1-mediated neuroprotection in injured spinal cord	M. K. Jee, et al.	2012	22182208	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) compose a relatively new discipline in biomedical research, and many physiological processes in disease have been associated with changes in miRNA expression. Several studies report that miRNAs participate in biological processes such as the control of secondary injury in several disease models. Recently, we identified novel miRNAs that were abnormally up-regulated in a traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI). In the current study, we focused on miR20a, which causes continuing motor neuron degeneration when overexpressed in SCI lesions. Blocking miR20a in SCI animals led to neural cell survival and eventual neurogenesis with rescued expression of the key target gene, neurogenin 1 (Ngn1). Infusion of siNgn1 resulted in functional deficit in the hindlimbs caused by aggressive secondary injury and actively enhanced the inflammation involved in secondary injury progression. The events involving miR20a underlie motor neuron and myelin destruction and pathophysiology and ultimately block regeneration in injured spinal cords. Inhibition of miR20a expression effectively induced definitive motor neuron survival and neurogenesis, and SCI animals showed improved functional deficit. In this study, we showed that abnormal expression of miR20a induces secondary injury, which suggests that miR20a could be a potential target for therapeutic intervention following SCI.	Animals;Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Transcription Factors/administration & dosage/antagonists;& inhibitors/ metabolism;Cell Survival/genetics;Disease Models, Animal;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/genetics;Hindlimb/pathology;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ antagonists & inhibitors/genetics;Motor Neurons/metabolism/pathology;Myelin Sheath/pathology;Nerve Tissue Proteins/administration & dosage/antagonists &;inhibitors/ metabolism;RNA Interference;Spinal Cord/ metabolism/pathology;Spinal Cord Injuries/metabolism/pathology/ therapy
Systems biology of the autophagy-lysosomal pathway	A. G. Jegga, et al.	2011	21293178	The mechanisms of the control and activity of the autophagy-lysosomal protein degradation machinery are emerging as an important theme for neurodevelopment and neurodegeneration. However, the underlying regulatory and functional networks of known genes controlling autophagy and lysosomal function and their role in disease are relatively unexplored. We performed a systems biology-based integrative computational analysis to study the interactions between molecular components and to develop models for regulation and function of genes involved in autophagy and lysosomal function. Specifically, we analyzed transcriptional and microRNA-based post-transcriptional regulation of these genes and performed functional enrichment analyses to understand their involvement in nervous system-related diseases and phenotypes. Transcriptional regulatory network analysis showed that binding sites for transcription factors, SREBP1, USF, AP-1 and NFE2, are common among autophagy and lysosomal genes. MicroRNA enrichment analysis revealed miR-130, 98, 124, 204 and 142 as the putative post-transcriptional regulators of the autophagy-lysosomal pathway genes. Pathway enrichment analyses revealed that the mTOR and insulin signaling pathways are important in the regulation of genes involved in autophagy. In addition, we found that glycosaminoglycan and glycosphingolipid pathways also make a major contribution to lysosomal gene regulation. The analysis confirmed the known contribution of the autophagy-lysosomal genes to Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases and also revealed potential involvement in tuberous sclerosis, neuronal ceroidlipofuscinoses, sepsis and lung, liver and prostatic neoplasms. To further probe the impact of autophagy-lysosomal gene deficits on neurologically-linked phenotypes, we also mined the mouse knockout phenotype data for the autophagylysosomal genes and found them to be highly predictive of nervous system dysfunction. Overall this study demonstrates the utility of systems biology-based approaches for understanding the autophagy-lysosomal pathways and gaining additional insights into the potential impact of defects in these complex biological processes.	Animals;Autophagy/ genetics/physiology;Cluster Analysis;Computational Biology;Epistasis, Genetic/physiology;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Regulatory Networks/physiology;Humans;Lysosomes/ genetics/ metabolism/physiology;Male;Mammals/genetics/metabolism/physiology;Mice;Microarray Analysis;Proteolysis;Signal Transduction/genetics;Systems Biology/methods;Transcription, Genetic
MicroRNA-27b contributes to lipopolysaccharide-mediated peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) mRNA destabilization	C. Jennewein, et al.	2010	20164187	Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) gained considerable interest as a therapeutic target during chronic inflammatory diseases. Remarkably, the pathogenesis of diseases such as multiple sclerosis or Alzheimer is associated with impaired PPARgamma expression. Considering that regulation of PPARgamma expression during inflammation is largely unknown, we were interested in elucidating underlying mechanisms. To this end, we initiated an inflammatory response by exposing primary human macrophages to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and observed a rapid decline of PPARgamma1 expression. Because promoter activities were not affected by LPS, we focused on mRNA stability and noticed a decreased mRNA half-life. As RNA stability is often regulated via 3'-untranslated regions (UTRs), we analyzed the impact of the PPARgamma-3'-UTR by reporter assays using specific constructs. LPS significantly reduced luciferase activity of the pGL3-PPARgamma-3'-UTR, suggesting that PPARgamma1 mRNA is destabilized. Deletion or mutation of a potential microRNA-27a/b (miR-27a/b) binding site within the 3'-UTR restored luciferase activity. Moreover, inhibition of miR-27b, which was induced upon LPS exposure, partially reversed PPARgamma1 mRNA decay, whereas miR-27b overexpression decreased PPARgamma1 mRNA content. In addition, LPS further reduced this decay. The functional relevance of miR-27b-dependent PPARgamma1 decrease was proven by inhibition or overexpression of miR-27b, which affected LPS-induced expression of the pro-inflammatory cytokines tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) and interleukin (IL)-6. We provide evidence that LPS-induced miR-27b contributes to destabilization of PPARgamma1 mRNA. Understanding molecular mechanisms decreasing PPARgamma might help to better appreciate inflammatory diseases.	3' Untranslated Regions;Base Sequence;Binding Sites/genetics;Cells, Cultured;DNA Primers/genetics;Humans;Interleukin-6/genetics;Lipopolysaccharides/pharmacology;Macrophages/drug effects/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Mutation;PPAR gamma/ genetics/ metabolism;RNA Stability/drug effects;RNA, Messenger/ genetics/ metabolism;Sequence Deletion;Transfection;Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha/genetics
Altered Arginine Metabolism in Cells Transfected with Human Wild-Type Beta Amyloid Precursor Protein (betaAPP)	H. Jesko, et al.	2016	26971935	Alterations of enzymes linked to arginine metabolism have been recently implicated in Alzheimer&#039;s disease (AD). Despite strong association of arginine changes with nitric oxide (NO) pathway, the impact of amyloid beta (Abeta) peptides on arginine degradation and re-synthesis is unknown. In the present study we compared expression levels of arginases (ARG1, ARG2), neuronal, endothelial and inducible NO synthase isoforms (NNOS, ENOS, INOS), enzymes that metabolize arginine or resynthesize it from citrulline and the levels of corresponding amino acids in rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells overexpressing human Abeta precursor protein (APPwt cells). Moreover, we investigated the changes in miRNAs responsible for modulation of arginine metabolism in AD brains. Real-time PCR analysis revealed in APPwt cells significant decreases of ARG1 and ARG2 which are responsible for lysing arginine into ornithine and urea; this reduction was followed by significantly lower enzyme activity. NNOS and ENOS mRNAs were elevated in APPwt cells while iNOS was undetectable in both cell lines. The expression of argininosuccinate synthase (ASS) that metabolizes citrulline was down-regulated without changes in argininosuccinate lyase (ASL). Ornithine decarboxylase (ODC), which decarboxylates ornithine to form putrescine was also reduced. Arginine, the substrate for both arginases and NOS, was unchanged in APPwt cells. However, citrulline concentration was significantly higher. Elevated miRNA-9 and miRNA-128a found in AD brain tissues might modulate the expression of ASS and NOS, respectively. Our results indicate that Abeta affects arginine metabolism and this influence might have important role in the pathomechanism of AD.	
PPARbeta/delta activation protects against corticosterone-induced ER stress in astrocytes by inhibiting the CpG hypermethylation of microRNA-181a	J. Ji, et al.	2017	27789312	Increasing evidence indicates that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) play neuroprotective roles in various neurodegenerative disease models in vivo and in vitro. However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Astrocyte proliferation is a key process in neural development and plays significant roles in the regeneration of neural tissue after a penetrating injury. Corticosterone can significantly reduce the expression of glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) in cultured rat hippocampal astrocytes in vitro, and induce astrocytic dysfunction. Our research found that corticosterone treatment resulted in astrocyte damage and reduced the expression of PPARbeta/delta. GW0742, a selective and high-affinity PPARbeta/delta agonist, attenuated the corticosterone-induced astrocyte damage, but also significantly reversed the increase in the expression of GRP78 and CHOP, the two predominant proteins in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Moreover, GW0742 decreased the levels of caspase-12 and cleaved caspase-3, thereby protecting astrocytes against corticosterone-induced astrocyte apoptosis. We then confirmed that GRP78 was a target gene of microRNA-181a and found that PPARbeta/delta activation increased microRNA-181a levels. Finally, we demonstrated that PPARbeta/delta activation by GW0742 noticeably inhibited the activities and expression of DNA methyltransferases, and reduced the corticosterone-induced CpG island hypermethylation of microRNA-181a1 in astrocytes. Therefore, the present study is the first to reveal that PPARbeta/delta activation suppresses CpG island hypermethylation-associated silencing of microRNA-181a and thereby protects against ER stress-induced damage in astrocytes. Our findings suggest that PPARbeta/delta activation in astrocytes might be a promising target for regulating ER stress-induced astrocytic injury.	ER stress;Grp78;Methylation;PPARbeta/delta;miR181a
Downregulated serum miR-223 servers as biomarker in Alzheimer's disease	L. H. Jia and Y. N. Liu	2016	27027823	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related neurodegenerative disorder that is characterized by progressive memory loss and deteriorated higher cognitive functions. An economical, rapid and noninvasive biomarker for AD has not been identified. We aimed to investigate the diagnostic value of serum miR-223 and miR-519 in AD. The expressions of miR-223 and miR-519, with previously reported AD-associated miR-29 and miR-125b, were measured by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction in the serum of 84 probable sporadic AD patients (age onset > 65 years) and 62 healthy control populations in China. Analyses were undertaken to assess the specificity and sensitivity of miRNAs to predict AD. In addition, the relationship between miRNAs and mini mental state examination (MMSE) scores in AD patients was also assessed. Serum miR-29, miR-125b and miR-223 were significantly decreased, but serum miR-519 was significantly increased in AD patients compared with healthy blood donors. In addition, serum miR-223 was strongly positively correlated with MMSE score in AD patients but serum miR-519 was not. Importantly, the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) result of serum miR-223 for prediction of AD was 0.786, higher than those of serum miR-29 (0.734) or miR-125b (0.726). The combination of serum miR-223 and miR-125b gave improved sensitivity/specificity for AD prediction (area under the ROC curve, 0.879) than either miRNA alone. Our preliminary findings indicate that serum miR-223 might be a potential biomarker for AD evaluation. Copyright (c) 2016 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ blood/diagnosis/ genetics;Biomarkers/blood;Down-Regulation/ genetics;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/ genetics;ROC Curve;Ad;Alzheimer's disease;biomarker;miR-223
Tumorigenicity of cancer stem-like cells derived from hepatocarcinoma is regulated by microRNA-145	Y. Jia, et al.	2012	22378186	microRNAs are implicated in cancer initiation and progression by their ability to affect the expression of genes and proteins that regulate cell proliferation and death. Recent studies found that the stem cell-related genes Sox2, Oct4 and Klf4 are among the target genes regulated by microRNA-145 (miR-145), suggesting that miR-145 possibly plays a role in the maintenance of cancer stem cells. Therefore, it is important to address the involvement of miR-145 in the key roles of cancer stem cells in cancer initiation, progression and reoccurrence. We compared miR-145 expression in the cancer stem-like cells (T3A-A3) derived from hepatocarcinoma, in the hepatocarcinoma cell line BEL-7402 and in the normal liver sinusoidal endothelial cell line (LSEC). As demonstrated by a TaqMan microRNA real-time assay, T3A-A3 cells express lower miR-145 levels compared to the other cell lines. To address the role of miR-145 in cancer stem cells, miR-145 was restored in T3A-A3 cells. This resulted in senescence-like G1 arrest in cell cycling, and significantly inhibited clonogenic cell expansion in vitro and xenograft tumor growth in vivo. Moreover, miR-145 restoration diminished tumorsphere growth of T3A-A3 cells in vitro and T3A-A3 cells tumor formation in nude mice in vivo. Additionally, the increase in miR-145 levels paralleled the decrease in Oct4 levels. The effect of miR-145 on tumor suppression in T3A-A3 cells was partly reversed by overexpression of Oct4 both in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, our data indicate that miR-145 plays an important role in cancer stem cell tumorigenicity, potentially via modulation of the downstream target, Oct4.	Animals;Carcinoma, Hepatocellular/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Cell Line;Cell Line, Tumor;G1 Phase Cell Cycle Checkpoints;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Liver Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Mice;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neoplastic Stem Cells/ metabolism/ pathology;Octamer Transcription Factor-3/ metabolism;Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays
Identification of therapeutic targets for Alzheimer's disease via differentially expressed gene and weighted gene co-expression network analyses	Y. Jia, et al.	2016	27748870	In order to investigate the pathogenic targets and associated biological process of Alzheimer's disease in the present study, mRNA expression profiles (GSE28146) and microRNA (miRNA) expression profiles (GSE16759) were downloaded from the Gene Expression Omnibus database. In GSE28146, eight control samples, and Alzheimer's disease samples comprising seven incipient, eight moderate, seven severe Alzheimer's disease samples, were included. The Affy package in R was used for background correction and normalization of the raw microarray data. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and differentially expressed miRNAs were identified using the Limma package. In addition, mRNAs were clustered using weighted gene correlation network analysis, and modules found to be significantly associated with the stages of Alzheimer's disease were screened out. The Database for Annotation, Visualization, and Integrated Discovery was used to perform Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analyses. The target genes of the differentially expressed miRNAs were identified using the miRWalk database. Compared with the control samples, 175,59 genes and 90 DEGs were identified in the incipient, moderate and severe Alzheimer's disease samples, respectively. A module, which contained 1,592 genes was found to be closely associated with the stage of Alzheimer's disease and biological processes. In addition, pathways associated with Alzheimer's disease and other neurological diseases were found to be enriched in those genes. A total of 139 overlapped genes were identified between those genes and the DEGs in the three groups. From the miRNA expression profiles, 189 miRNAs were found differentially expressed in the samples from patients with Alzheimer's disease and 1,647 target genes were obtained. In addition, five overlapped genes were identified between those 1,647 target genes and the 139 genes, and these genes may be important pathogenic targets for Alzheimer's disease. Through bioinformatics analysis, potential therapeutic targets and associated biological processes were identified, which may assist in understanding and treatment of Alzheimer's disease.	Alzheimer Disease/drug therapy/ genetics;Cluster Analysis;Computational Biology/methods;Databases, Genetic;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Ontology;Gene Regulatory Networks;Humans;Transcriptome
MiR-30a-5p antisense oligonucleotide suppresses glioma cell growth by targeting SEPT7	Z. Jia, et al.	2013	23383034	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs that regulate gene expression by targeting the mRNAs of hundreds of human genes. Variations in miRNA expression levels were shown to be associated with glioma. We have previously found miR-30a-5p overexpression in glioma cell lines and specimens. Bioinformatics analyses predict that several miRNAs, including miR-30a-5p, are involved in the post-transcriptional regulation of SEPT7. SEPT7 is a member of the septin family, which is a highly conserved subfamily of GTPases implicated in exocytosis, apoptosis, synaptogenesis, neurodegeneration and tumorigenesis. Our previous study has also demonstrated that SEPT7 expression is decreased in astrocytic gliomas with different grades and plays a tumor suppressor role. In the present study, we knocked down miR-30a-5p with antisense oligonucleotide (miR-30a-5p AS) in LN229 and SNB19 glioblastoma(GBM) cells, and found that cell growth and invasion were inhibited, while apoptosis was induced. miR-30a-5p AS treated cells showed upregulation of SEPT7 and downregulation of PCNA, cyclin D1, Bcl2, MMP2 and MMP9. In contrast, when miR-30a-5p mimics were transfected into LN229 and SNB19 GBM cells, cell growth and invasion were promoted and the expression of relevant proteins increased. Meanwhile, the effect of miR-30a-5p mimics on glioma cells can be reversed by transfection of SEPT7 construct. Additionaly, miR-30a-5p directly targeting SEPT7 was identified by the reporter gene assay. Our study demonstrates,for the first time, that miR-30a-5p is a bona fide negative regulator of SEPT7 and the oncogenic activity of miR-30a-5p in human gliomas is at least in part through the repression of SEPT7.	Adenoviridae/genetics;Apoptosis/genetics;Base Sequence;Cell Cycle Proteins/deficiency/ genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;G1 Phase Cell Cycle Checkpoints/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/genetics;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Glioma/ pathology;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neoplasm Invasiveness;Oligonucleotides, Antisense/ genetics;Resting Phase, Cell Cycle/genetics;Septins/deficiency/ genetics;Transfection;Up-Regulation/genetics
miR-34a knockout attenuates cognitive deficits in APP/PS1 mice through inhibition of the amyloidogenic processing of APP	C. Jian, et al.	2017	28533191	The noncoding miRNA-34a (miR-34a) is involved in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathologenesis and shows potential for application as a biomarker for early diagnosis and intervention. Here, we established miR-34a knockout mice in an APP/PS1 background (APP/PS1-miR-34a KO mice) by crossbreeding miR-34a-/- mice with APP/PS1 mice. We then investigated cognitive impairment and related pathologies. The results showed that the level of miR-34a was increased at about 6months in APP/PS1 mice, consistent with the increase in amyloid beta (Abeta), and cognitive function was significantly improved in mice when miR-34a was knocked out in 9-month-old and 12-month-old mice, indicating that miR-34a is a potential candidate for determining the progression of AD. Furthermore, we assessed the processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and the results suggest that cognitive improvement by miR-34a knock out was mainly triggered by depression of gamma-secretase activity, without affecting beta- and alpha-secretase activities, indicating that miR-34a plays an important role in AD pathology, mainly by inhibiting the amyloidogenic processing of APP, without altering the non-amyloidogenic processing of APP.	Alzheimer's disease;Amyloidogenic processing;Abeta;miR-34a
Identification of active transcription factor and miRNA regulatory pathways in Alzheimer's disease	W. Jiang, et al.	2013	23990414	MOTIVATION: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a severe neurodegenerative disease of the central nervous system that may be caused by perturbation of regulatory pathways rather than the dysfunction of a single gene. However, the pathology of AD has yet to be fully elucidated. RESULTS: In this study, we systematically analyzed AD-related mRNA and miRNA expression profiles as well as curated transcription factor (TF) and miRNA regulation to identify active TF and miRNA regulatory pathways in AD. By mapping differentially expressed genes and miRNAs to the curated TF and miRNA regulatory network as active seed nodes, we obtained a potential active subnetwork in AD. Next, by using the breadth-first-search technique, potential active regulatory pathways, which are the regulatory cascade of TFs, miRNAs and their target genes, were identified. Finally, based on the known AD-related genes and miRNAs, the hypergeometric test was used to identify active pathways in AD. As a result, nine pathways were found to be significantly activated in AD. A comprehensive literature review revealed that eight out of nine genes and miRNAs in these active pathways were associated with AD. In addition, we inferred that the pathway hsa-miR-146a-->STAT1-->MYC, which is the source of all nine significantly active pathways, may play an important role in AD progression, which should be further validated by biological experiments. Thus, this study provides an effective approach to finding active TF and miRNA regulatory pathways in AD and can be easily applied to other complex diseases.	Algorithms;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Transcription Factors/ genetics/metabolism
MicroRNA-29b regulates the expression level of human progranulin, a secreted glycoprotein implicated in frontotemporal dementia	J. Jiao, et al.	2010	20479936	Progranulin deficiency is thought to cause some forms of frontotemporal dementia (FTD), a major early-onset age-dependent neurodegenerative disease. How progranulin (PGRN) expression is regulated is largely unknown. We identified an evolutionarily conserved binding site for microRNA-29b (miR-29b) in the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) of the human PGRN (hPGRN) mRNA. miR-29b downregulates the expression of luciferase through hPGRN or mouse PGRN (mPGRN) 3'UTRs, and the regulation was abolished by mutations in the miR-29b binding site. To examine the direct effect of manipulating endogenous miR-29b on hPGRN expression, we established a stable NIH3T3 cell line that expresses hPGRN under the control of the cytomegalovirus promoter. Ectopic expression of miR-29b decreased hPGRN expression at the both mRNA and protein levels. Conversely, knockdown of endogenous miR-29b with locked nucleic acid increased the production and secretion of hPGRN in NIH3T3 cells. Endogenous hPGRN in HEK 293 cells was also regulated by miR-29b. These findings identify miR-29b as a novel posttranscriptional regulator of PGRN expression, raising the possibility that miR-29b or other miRNAs might be targeted therapeutically to increase hPGRN levels in some FTD patients.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Animals;Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Cell Line;Frontotemporal Dementia/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Genes, Reporter;Glycoproteins/ genetics/ secretion;Humans;Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins/biosynthesis/ genetics/ secretion;Intracellular Space/metabolism;Luciferases/metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;NIH 3T3 Cells;Protein Binding;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism
Osthole decreases beta amyloid levels through up-regulation of miR-107 in Alzheimer's disease	Y. Jiao, et al.	2016	27143098	Accumulation of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) in the brain plays an important role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although osthole has been shown to neuroprotective activity in AD, the exact molecular mechanism of its neuroprotective effects has not yet been fully elucidated. Recently, microRNAs (miRNAs) have been reported to regulate multiple aspects of AD development and progression, indicating that targeting miRNAs could be a novel strategy to treat AD. In the current study, we investigated whether a natural coumarin derivative osthole could up-regulate miR-107, resulting in facilitating the cells survival, reducing LDH leakage, inhibiting apoptosis and reducing beta amyloid (Abeta) production in AD. We found that osthole treatment significantly up-regulate miR-107 expression and inhibited BACE1, one of the targets of miR-107. Administration of osthole to APP/PS1 transgenic mice resulted in a significant improvement in learning and memory function, which was associated with a significant a decrease in Abeta in the hippocampal and cortex region of the brain. Our findings demonstrated that osthole plays a neuroprotective activity role in part through up-regulate miR-107 in AD.	Alzheimer's disease;Abeta;Bace1;Osthole;miRNA-107
Epigenetic Mechanisms of Gene Regulation in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis	A. Jimenez-Pacheco, et al.	2017	28523551	Despite being clinically described 150 years ago, the mechanisms underlying amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) pathogenesis have not yet been fully understood. Studies in both animal models of ALS and human patients reveal a plethora of alterations such as increased glutamate-mediated excitotoxicity, redox stress, increased apoptosis, defective axonal transport, protein-misfolding events, mitochondrial impairment and sustained unregulated immune responses. Regardless of being sporadic or familiar ALS, the final outcome at the cellular level is the death of upper and lower motor neurons, and once diagnosed, ALS is typically lethal within the next 5 years. There are neither clear biomarkers nor therapeutic or disease-modifying treatments for ALS.Accumulating evidence supports the concept that epigenetic-driven modifications, including altered chromatin remodelling events, RNA editing and non-coding RNA molecules, might shed light into the pathogenic mechanisms underlying sporadic/familiar ALS onset and/or severity to facilitate the identification of effective therapies, early diagnosis and potentially early-stage therapeutic interventions to increase the survival outcome of ALS patients.	Frontotemporal dementia (FTP);Histone acetyl transferases (HAT);Histone deacetylases (HDACs);MicroRNAs;Motor neurone disease (MND);Neurodegeneration;Neurodegeneration, DNA methyltransferases (DNMT);Neuromuscular
Interrogation of brain miRNA and mRNA expression profiles reveals a molecular regulatory network that is perturbed by mutant huntingtin	J. Jin, et al.	2012	22906125	Emerging evidence indicates that microRNAs (miRNAs) may play an important role in the pathogenesis of Huntington's disease (HD). To identify the individual miRNAs that are altered in HD and may therefore regulate a gene network underlying mutant huntingtin-induced neuronal dysfunction in HD, we performed miRNA array analysis combined with mRNA profiling in the cerebral cortex from N171-82Q HD mice. Expression profiles of miRNAs as well as mRNAs in HD mouse cerebral cortex were analyzed and confirmed at different stages of disease progression; the most significant changes of miRNAs in the cerebral cortex were also detected in the striatum of HD mice. Our results revealed a significant alteration of miR-200 family members, miR-200a, and miR-200c in the cerebral cortex and the striatum, at the early stage of disease progression in N171-82Q HD mice. We used a coordinated approach to integrate miRNA and mRNA profiling, and applied bioinformatics to predict a target gene network potentially regulated by these significantly altered miRNAs that might be involved in HD disease progression. Interestingly, miR-200a and miR-200c are predicted to target genes regulating synaptic function, neurodevelopment, and neuronal survival. Our results suggest that altered expression of miR-200a and miR-200c may interrupt the production of proteins involved in neuronal plasticity and survival, and further investigation of the involvement of perturbed miRNA expression in HD pathogenesis is warranted, and may lead to reveal novel approaches for HD therapy.	Age Factors;Animals;Brain/ metabolism/pathology;Computational Biology;Disease Models, Animal;Disease Progression;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation/genetics;Gene Regulatory Networks/ genetics;Green Fluorescent Proteins/genetics;Humans;Huntingtin Protein;Huntington Disease/genetics/ pathology;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ genetics;Neurons/metabolism;Nuclear Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Peptides/ genetics;RNA, Messenger/ metabolism
Long Non-Coding RNA KCNQ1OT1 Promotes Cataractogenesis via miR-214 and Activation of the Caspase-1 Pathway	X. Jin, et al.	2017	28535504	BACKGROUND/AIMS: KCNQ1OT1 regulates the expression of tissue-specific imprinted genes within the Kcnq1 domain. Imprinted genes are positive regulators of apoptosis, one of the forms of cell death related to cataract formation, and thus may provide novel therapeutic targets for cataract treatment. Here, we studied the role of non-coding RNAs(ncRNA) in cataract formation. METHODS: Human lens epithelium cells (HLECs) were treated with H2O2, and the expression of KCNQ1OT1 and miR-214 was detected by qRT-PCR. The expression of caspase-1 was detected using qRT-PCR, western blot and immunostaining. To confirm our findings in cell cultures, we analysed KCNQ1OT1, miR-214, and caspase-1 expression in lens anterior capsules of both cataract patients and normal controls by qRT-PCR and western blot analysis. RESULTS: We found that the expression of KCNQ1OT1 was increased in both human cataract lens anterior capsular samples and SRA01/04 cell lines treated with H2O2. Knockdown of KCNQ1OT1 expression significantly suppressed H2O2-induced SRA01/04 cell pyroptosis in vitro, which is the critical step in cataract formation. The expression of microRNA-214 (miR-214) was also decreased in cataract lens anterior capsular tissues and H2O2-induced SRA01/04 cell lines. Knockdown of KCNQ1OT1 significantly increased the expression of miR-214. CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrated for the first time that caspase-1 is a functional downstream target of miR-214, and knockdown of KCNQ1OT1 reduced the expression of caspase-1. These results provide evidence that the KCNQ1OT1-miR-214-caspase-1 regulatory network is a novel mechanism for promoting cataract formation.	Caspase-1;Cataract;Kcnq1ot1;Pyroptosis;miR-214
Integrated genome-wide analysis of expression quantitative trait loci aids interpretation of genomic association studies	R. Joehanes, et al.	2017	28122634	BACKGROUND: Identification of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with gene expression levels, known as expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs), may improve understanding of the functional role of phenotype-associated SNPs in genome-wide association studies (GWAS). The small sample sizes of some previous eQTL studies have limited their statistical power. We conducted an eQTL investigation of microarray-based gene and exon expression levels in whole blood in a cohort of 5257 individuals, exceeding the single cohort size of previous studies by more than a factor of 2. RESULTS: We detected over 19,000 independent lead cis-eQTLs and over 6000 independent lead trans-eQTLs, targeting over 10,000 gene targets (eGenes), with a false discovery rate (FDR) < 5%. Of previously published significant GWAS SNPs, 48% are identified to be significant eQTLs in our study. Some trans-eQTLs point toward novel mechanistic explanations for the association of the SNP with the GWAS-related phenotype. We also identify 59 distinct blocks or clusters of trans-eQTLs, each targeting the expression of sets of six to 229 distinct trans-eGenes. Ten of these sets of target genes are significantly enriched for microRNA targets (FDR < 5%). Many of these clusters are associated in GWAS with multiple phenotypes. CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide insights into the molecular regulatory patterns involved in human physiology and pathophysiology. We illustrate the value of our eQTL database in the context of a recent GWAS meta-analysis of coronary artery disease and provide a list of targeted eGenes for 21 of 58 GWAS loci.	Adult;Aged;Alleles;Cluster Analysis;Female;Gene Expression;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Frequency;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Genome-Wide Association Study/methods;Genomics/methods;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics;Middle Aged;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Quantitative Trait Loci;Regulatory Sequences, Nucleic Acid;Reproducibility of Results;Web Browser
Gene dysregulation in Huntington's disease: REST, microRNAs and beyond	R. Johnson and N. J. Buckley	2009	19458943	Huntington's disease (HD) is an incurable, fatal neurodegenerative disorder that is caused by a polyglutamine expansion in the huntingtin (Htt) protein. Neuronal death in the striatum-the most obvious manifestation of the disease-is likely to result from widespread dysregulation of gene expression in various brain regions. To date, several potential mechanisms for this have been discovered, including one involving REST (RE1-Silencing Transcription Factor), a master regulator of neuronal genes. Recently, independent studies have demonstrated that post-transcriptional gene regulation by microRNAs is also disrupted in HD. Expression of key neuronal microRNAs-including mir-9/9*, mir-124 and mir-132-is repressed in the brains of human HD patients and mouse models. These changes occur downstream of REST, and are likely to result in major disruption of mRNA regulation and neuronal function. In this study we will discuss these findings and their implications for our understanding of HD. Using updated bioinformatic analysis, we predict 21 new candidate microRNAs in HD. We propose future strategies for unifying large-scale transcriptional and microRNA datasets with the aim of explaining HD aetiology. By way of example, we show how available genomic datasets can be integrated to provide independent, analytical validation for dysregulation of REST and microRNA mir-124 in HD. As a consequence, gene ontology analysis indicates that HD is characterised by a broad-based depression of neural genes in the caudate and motor cortex. Thus, we propose that a combination of REST, microRNAs and possibly other non-coding RNAs profoundly affect the neuronal transcriptome in HD.	Animals;Gene Expression Regulation;Genome, Human;Humans;Huntingtin Protein;Huntington Disease/ genetics/physiopathology;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Nuclear Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Repressor Proteins/genetics/ metabolism
Regulation of neural macroRNAs by the transcriptional repressor REST	R. Johnson, et al.	2009	19050060	The essential transcriptional repressor REST (repressor element 1-silencing transcription factor) plays central roles in development and human disease by regulating a large cohort of neural genes. These have conventionally fallen into the class of known, protein-coding genes; recently, however, several noncoding microRNA genes were identified as REST targets. Given the widespread transcription of messenger RNA-like, noncoding RNAs ("macroRNAs"), some of which are functional and implicated in disease in mammalian genomes, we sought to determine whether this class of noncoding RNAs can also be regulated by REST. By applying a new, unbiased target gene annotation pipeline to computationally discovered REST binding sites, we find that 23% of mammalian REST genomic binding sites are within 10 kb of a macroRNA gene. These putative target genes were overlooked by previous studies. Focusing on a set of 18 candidate macroRNA targets from mouse, we experimentally demonstrate that two are regulated by REST in neural stem cells. Flanking protein-coding genes are, at most, weakly repressed, suggesting specific targeting of the macroRNAs by REST. Similar to the majority of known REST target genes, both of these macroRNAs are induced during nervous system development and have neurally restricted expression profiles in adult mouse. We observe a similar phenomenon in human: the DiGeorge syndrome-associated noncoding RNA, DGCR5, is repressed by REST through a proximal upstream binding site. Therefore neural macroRNAs represent an additional component of the REST regulatory network. These macroRNAs are new candidates for understanding the role of REST in neuronal development, neurodegeneration, and cancer.	Animals;Binding Sites;Cells, Cultured;DiGeorge Syndrome/genetics/metabolism;HeLa Cells;Humans;Mice;Neurons/ metabolism;RNA, Untranslated/ metabolism;Repressor Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Stem Cells/metabolism;Transcription, Genetic
A microRNA-based gene dysregulation pathway in Huntington's disease	R. Johnson, et al.	2008	18082412	Huntington's disease (HD) is a dominantly-inherited neurodegenerative disorder which is incurable and ultimately fatal. HD is characterised by widespread mRNA dysregulation, particularly in neurons of the forebrain, by mechanisms which are not fully understood. Such dysregulation has been demonstrated to result, in part, from aberrant nuclear localisation of the transcriptional repressor, REST. Here, we show that expression of a number of neuronal-specific microRNAs is also dysregulated in HD tissues, probably as a result of increased repression by REST. This phenomenon is observed in both murine models of HD and in the brains of human HD sufferers. MicroRNA loss is reflected in increased levels of a number of target messenger RNAs. These data are the first to demonstrate a role for microRNAs in HD, and indicate that the molecular aetiology of HD is reflected in a loss of neuronal identity, caused in part by dysregulation of both transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanisms.	Animals;Brain/pathology/physiology;Cells, Cultured;Gene Targeting/methods;Humans;Huntington Disease/ genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Repressor Proteins/biosynthesis/genetics;Signal Transduction/ genetics;Transcription Factors/biosynthesis/genetics
Regulating amyloidogenesis through the natural triggering receptor expressed in myeloid/microglial cells 2 (TREM2)	B. M. Jones, et al.	2014	24744699		Alzheimer's disease (AD);Ass42 peptides;Trem2;amyloidogenesis;inflammation;miRNA-34a;microglial cells;phagocytosis
Molecular analysis of pediatric brain tumors identifies microRNAs in pilocytic astrocytomas that target the MAPK and NF-kappaB pathways	T. A. Jones, et al.	2015	26682910	INTRODUCTION: Pilocytic astrocytomas are slow-growing tumors that usually occur in the cerebellum or in the midline along the hypothalamic/optic pathways. The most common genetic alterations in pilocytic astrocytomas activate the ERK/MAPK signal transduction pathway, which is a major driver of proliferation but is also believed to induce senescence in these tumors. Here, we have conducted a detailed investigation of microRNA and gene expression, together with pathway analysis, to improve our understanding of the regulatory mechanisms in pilocytic astrocytomas. RESULTS: Pilocytic astrocytomas were found to have distinctive microRNA and gene expression profiles compared to normal brain tissue and a selection of other pediatric brain tumors. Several microRNAs found to be up-regulated in pilocytic astrocytomas are predicted to target the ERK/MAPK and NF-kappaB signaling pathways as well as genes involved in senescence-associated inflammation and cell cycle control. Furthermore, IGFBP7 and CEBPB, which are transcriptional inducers of the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP), were also up-regulated together with the markers of senescence and inflammation, CDKN1A (p21), CDKN2A (p16) and IL1B. CONCLUSION: These findings provide further evidence of a senescent phenotype in pilocytic astrocytomas. In addition, they suggest that the ERK/MAPK pathway, which is considered the major driver of these tumors, is regulated not only by genetic aberrations but also by microRNAs.	Adolescent;Astrocytoma/ genetics/ metabolism;Brain Neoplasms/ genetics/ metabolism;Child;Child, Preschool;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Infant;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinases/metabolism;NF-kappa B/genetics/metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Signal Transduction/ drug effects/genetics
MicroRNA 299-3p modulates replicative senescence in endothelial cells	H. L. Jong, et al.	2013	23362143	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate various cellular processes. While several genes associated with replicative senescence have been described in endothelial cells, miRNAs that regulate these genes remain largely unknown. The present study was designed to identify miRNAs associated with replicative senescence and their target genes in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). An integrated miRNA and gene profiling approach revealed that hsa-miR-299-3p is upregulated in senescent HUVECs compared with the young cells, and one of its target genes could be IGF1. IGF1 was upregulated in senescent compared with young HUVECs, and knockdown of hsa-miR-299-3p dose-dependently increased the mRNA expression of IGF1, more significantly observed in the presenescent cells (passage 19) compared with the senescent cells (passage 25). Knockdown of hsa-miR-299-3p also resulted in significant reduction in the percentage of cells positively stained for senescence-associated beta-galactosidase and increases in cell viability measured by MTT assay but marginal increases in cell proliferation and cell migration capacity measured by real-time growth kinetics analysis. Moreover, knockdown of hsa-miR-299-3p also increased proliferation of cells treated with H2O2 to induce senescence. These findings suggest that hsa-miR-299-3p may delay or protect against replicative senescence by improving the metabolic activity of the senesced cells but does not stimulate growth of the remaining cells in senescent cultures. Hence, these findings provide an early insight into the role of hsa-miR-299-3p in the modulation of replicative senescence in HUVECs.	Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Gene Regulatory Networks;Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells/metabolism/ physiology;Humans;Insulin-Like Growth Factor I/genetics;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/metabolism/ physiology;Microarray Analysis
Obesity-induced overexpression of miRNA-143 inhibits insulin-stimulated AKT activation and impairs glucose metabolism	S. D. Jordan, et al.	2011	21441927	The contribution of altered post-transcriptional gene silencing to the development of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes mellitus so far remains elusive. Here, we demonstrate that expression of microRNA (miR)-143 and 145 is upregulated in the liver of genetic and dietary mouse models of obesity. Induced transgenic overexpression of miR-143, but not miR-145, impairs insulin-stimulated AKT activation and glucose homeostasis. Conversely, mice deficient for the miR-143-145 cluster are protected from the development of obesity-associated insulin resistance. Quantitative-mass-spectrometry-based analysis of hepatic protein expression in miR-143-overexpressing mice revealed miR-143-dependent downregulation of oxysterol-binding-protein-related protein (ORP) 8. Reduced ORP8 expression in cultured liver cells impairs the ability of insulin to induce AKT activation, revealing an ORP8-dependent mechanism of AKT regulation. Our experiments provide direct evidence that dysregulated post-transcriptional gene silencing contributes to the development of obesity-induced insulin resistance, and characterize the miR-143-ORP8 pathway as a potential target for the treatment of obesity-associated diabetes.	Animals;Diet;Enzyme Activation;Glucose/ metabolism;Insulin/ metabolism;Insulin Resistance;Liver/enzymology;Mice;Mice, Obese;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Obesity/ genetics/ metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism
MicroRNA-22 (miR-22) overexpression is neuroprotective via general anti-apoptotic effects and may also target specific Huntington's disease-related mechanisms	A. Jovicic, et al.	2013	23349832	BACKGROUND: Whereas many causes and mechanisms of neurodegenerative diseases have been identified, very few therapeutic strategies have emerged in parallel. One possible explanation is that successful treatment strategy may require simultaneous targeting of more than one molecule of pathway. A new therapeutic approach to have emerged recently is the engagement of microRNAs (miRNAs), which affords the opportunity to target multiple cellular pathways simultaneously using a single sequence. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We identified miR-22 as a potentially neuroprotective miRNA based on its predicted regulation of several targets implicated in Huntington's disease (histone deacetylase 4 (HDAC4), REST corepresor 1 (Rcor1) and regulator of G-protein signaling 2 (Rgs2)) and its diminished expression in Huntington's and Alzheimer's disease brains. We then tested the hypothesis that increasing cellular levels of miRNA-22 would achieve neuroprotection in in vitro models of neurodegeneration. As predicted, overexpression of miR-22 inhibited neurodegeneration in primary striatal and cortical cultures exposed to a mutated human huntingtin fragment (Htt171-82Q). Overexpression of miR-22 also decreased neurodegeneration in primary neuronal cultures exposed to 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP), a mitochondrial complex II/III inhibitor. In addition, miR-22 improved neuronal viability in an in vitro model of brain aging. The mechanisms underlying the effects of miR-22 included a reduction in caspase activation, consistent with miR-22's targeting the pro-apoptotic activities of mitogen-activated protein kinase 14/p38 (MAPK14/p38) and tumor protein p53-inducible nuclear protein 1 (Tp53inp1). Moreover, HD-specific effects comprised not only targeting HDAC4, Rcor1 and Rgs2 mRNAs, but also decreasing focal accumulation of mutant Htt-positive foci, which occurred via an unknown mechanism. CONCLUSIONS: These data show that miR-22 has multipartite anti-neurodegenerative activities including the inhibition of apoptosis and the targeting of mRNAs implicated in the etiology of HD. These results motivate additional studies to evaluate the feasibility and therapeutic efficacy of manipulating miR-22 in vivo.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Animals;Apoptosis/ genetics;Blotting, Western;Brain/metabolism/pathology;Cell Survival/drug effects/genetics;Cells, Cultured;Co-Repressor Proteins;Gene Expression Regulation;Genetic Predisposition to Disease/ genetics;HEK293 Cells;Histone Deacetylases/genetics;Humans;Huntingtin Protein;Huntington Disease/ genetics/metabolism;Luciferases/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Mutation;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics;Neurons/cytology/drug effects/metabolism;Nitro Compounds/pharmacology;Propionates/pharmacology;RGS Proteins/genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Rats;Repressor Proteins/genetics
Regulation of prelamin A but not lamin C by miR-9, a brain-specific microRNA	H. J. Jung, et al.	2012	22308344	Lamins A and C, alternatively spliced products of the LMNA gene, are key components of the nuclear lamina. The two isoforms are found in similar amounts in most tissues, but we observed an unexpected pattern of expression in the brain. Western blot and immunohistochemistry studies showed that lamin C is abundant in the mouse brain, whereas lamin A and its precursor prelamin A are restricted to endothelial cells and meningeal cells and are absent in neurons and glia. Prelamin A transcript levels were low in the brain, but this finding could not be explained by alternative splicing. In lamin A-only knockin mice, where alternative splicing is absent and all the output of the gene is channeled into prelamin A transcripts, large amounts of lamin A were found in peripheral tissues, but there was very little lamin A in the brain. Also, in knockin mice expressing exclusively progerin (a toxic form of prelamin A found in Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome), the levels of progerin in the brain were extremely low. Further studies showed that prelamin A expression, but not lamin C expression, is down-regulated by a brain-specific microRNA, miR-9. Expression of miR-9 in cultured cells reduced lamin A expression, and this effect was abolished when the miR-9-binding site in the prelamin A 3' UTR was mutated. The down-regulation of prelamin A expression in the brain could explain why mouse models of Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome are free of central nervous system pathology.	Animals;Blotting, Western;Brain/ metabolism;Lamin Type A/ metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/ metabolism
Comprehensive miRNA Profiling of Skeletal Muscle and Serum in Induced and Normal Mouse Muscle Atrophy During Aging	H. J. Jung, et al.	2017	28329037	Age-associated loss of muscle mass and function is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the elderly adults. Muscular atrophy can also be induced by disuse associated with long-term bed rest or disease. Although miRNAs regulate muscle growth, regeneration, and aging, their potential role in acute muscle atrophy is poorly understood. Furthermore, alterations in circulating miRNA levels have been shown to occur during aging but their potential as noninvasive biomarkers for muscle atrophy remains largely unexplored. Here, we report comprehensive miRNA expression profiles by miRNA-seq analysis in tibialis anterior muscle and serum of a disuse-induced atrophy mouse model, mimicking the acute atrophy following long-term bed rest, as compared to those of young and old mice. Comparative analysis and validation studies have revealed that miR-455-3p was significantly decreased in muscle of both induced-atrophy model and old mice, whereas miR-434-3p was decreased in both serum and muscle of old mice, as compared to young mice. Furthermore, upregulation of miR-455-3p in fully differentiated C2C12 myoblasts induced a hypertrophic phenotype. These results suggest that deregulation of miR-455-3p may play a functional role in muscle atrophy and miR-434-3p could be a candidate serum biomarker of muscle aging.	Disuse muscle atrophy;MicroRNA;Muscle aging;Sarcopenia;Serum
MicroRNA in Aging: From Discovery to Biology	H. J. Jung and Y. Suh	2012	23633914	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNA molecules that negatively regulate gene expression of their targets at the post-transcriptional levels. A single miRNA can target up to several hundred mRNAs, thus capable of significantly altering gene expression regulatory networks. In-depth study and characterization of miRNAs has elucidated their critical functions in development, homeostasis, and disease. A link between miRNAs and longevity has been demonstrated in C. elegans, implicating their role in regulation of lifespan and in the aging process. Recent years have witnessed unprecedented technological advances in studies of miRNAs, including ultra-high throughput sequencing technologies that allow comprehensive discovery of miRNAs and their targets. Here we review the latest experimental approaches from the perspective of understanding miRNA gene expression regulatory networks in aging. We provide a methodological work flow that can be employed to discover aging-related miRNAs and their targets, and to functionally validate their roles in aging. Finally, we review the links between miRNAs known to act in the conserved pathways of aging and major aging-related diseases. Taken together, we hope to provide a focused review to facilitate future endeavor of uncovering the functional role of miRNA in aging.	Aging;Gene regulatory network;High-throughput sequencing;Longevity;Target validation.;microRNAs
SPL3/4/5 Integrate Developmental Aging and Photoperiodic Signals into the FT-FD Module in Arabidopsis Flowering	J. H. Jung, et al.	2016	27815142	Environmental sensitivity varies across developmental phases in flowering plants. In the juvenile phase, microRNA156 (miR156)-mediated repression of SQUAMOSA PROMOTER-BINDING PROTEIN-LIKE (SPL) transcription factors renders Arabidopsis plants incompetent to floral inductive signals, including long-day (LD) photoperiod. During the vegetative phase transition, which accompanies a reduction of miR156 and a concomitant elevation of its targets, plants acquire reproductive competence such that LD signals promote flowering. However, it remains largely unknown how developmental signals are associated with photoperiodic flowering. Here, we show that SPL3, SPL4, and SPL5 (SPL3/4/5) potentiate the FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT)-FD module in photoperiodic flowering. SPL3/4/5 function as transcriptional activators through the interaction with FD, a basic leucine zipper transcription factor which plays a critical role in photoperiodic flowering. SPL3/4/5 can directly bind to the promoters of APETALA1, LEAFY, and FRUITFULL, thus mediating their activation by the FT-FD complex. Our findings demonstrate that SPL3/4/5 act synergistically with the FT-FD module to induce flowering under LDs, providing a long-sought molecular knob that links developmental aging and photoperiodic flowering.	FT-FD complex;SPL transcription factors;developmental aging;photoperiodic flowering
Decreased Expression of hsa-miR-4274 in Cerebrospinal Fluid of Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus Mimics with Parkinsonian Syndromes	I. Jurjevic, et al.	2017	27911315	BACKGROUND: Patients presenting with the classical idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH) triad often show additional parkinsonian spectrum signs. Accurate differential diagnosis strongly influences the long-term outcome of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) shunting. OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to find potential CSF microRNA (miRNA) biomarkers for NPH mimics with parkinsonian syndromes that can reliably distinguish them from iNPH patients. METHODS: Two cohorts of 81 patients (cohort 1, n = 55; cohort 2, n = 26) with possible iNPH who were treated in two centers between January 2011 and May 2014 were studied. In both cohorts, CSF samples were obtained from patients clinically diagnosed with iNPH (n = 21 and n = 10, respectively), possible iNPH with parkinsonian spectrum (PS) (n = 18, n = 10, respectively), possible iNPH with Alzheimer's disease (AD) (n = 16), and non-affected elderly individuals (NC) (n = 6). A three-step qRT-PCR analysis of the CSF samples was performed to detect miRNAs that were differentially expressed in the groups. RESULTS: The expression of hsa-miR-4274 in CSF was decreased in both cohorts of PS group patients (cohort 1: p < 0.0001, cohort 2: p < 0.0001), and was able to distinguish PS from iNPH with high accuracy (area under the curve = 0.908). The CSF concentration of hsa-miR-4274 also correlated with the specific binding ratio of ioflupane (123I) dopamine transporter scan (r = -0.494, p = 0.044). By contrast, the level of hsa-miR-4274 was significantly increased in the PS group after CSF diversion. CONCLUSION: Levels of CSF hsa-miR-4274 can differentiate PS from patients with iNPH, AD, and NC. This may be clinically useful for diagnostic purposes and predicting shunt treatment responses.	Alzheimer's disease;cerebrospinal fluid;idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus;microRNAs;parkinsonian syndrome
A miR-335/COX-2/PTEN axis regulates the secretory phenotype of senescent cancer-associated fibroblasts	T. D. Kabir, et al.	2016	27385366	Senescent cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAF) develop a senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) that is believed to contribute to cancer progression. The mechanisms underlying SASP development are, however, poorly understood. Here we examined the functional role of microRNA in the development of the SASP in normal fibroblasts and CAF. We identified a microRNA, miR-335, up-regulated in the senescent normal fibroblasts and CAF and able to modulate the secretion of SASP factors and induce cancer cell motility in co-cultures, at least in part by suppressing the expression of phosphatase and tensin homologue (PTEN). Additionally, elevated levels of cyclo-oxygenase 2 (PTGS2; COX-2) and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) secretion were observed in senescent fibroblasts, and inhibition of COX-2 by celecoxib reduced the expression of miR-335, restored PTEN expression and decreased the pro-tumourigenic effects of the SASP. Collectively these data demonstrate the existence of a novel miRNA/PTEN-regulated pathway modulating the inflammasome in senescent fibroblasts.	Caf;Cox-2;Pten;Sasp;fibroblast;miR-335
Neuronal responses to physiological stress	K. Kagias, et al.	2012	23112806	Physiological stress can be defined as any external or internal condition that challenges the homeostasis of a cell or an organism. It can be divided into three different aspects: environmental stress, intrinsic developmental stress, and aging. Throughout life all living organisms are challenged by changes in the environment. Fluctuations in oxygen levels, temperature, and redox state for example, trigger molecular events that enable an organism to adapt, survive, and reproduce. In addition to external stressors, organisms experience stress associated with morphogenesis and changes in inner chemistry during normal development. For example, conditions such as intrinsic hypoxia and oxidative stress, due to an increase in tissue mass, have to be confronted by developing embryos in order to complete their development. Finally, organisms face the challenge of stochastic accumulation of molecular damage during aging that results in decline and eventual death. Studies have shown that the nervous system plays a pivotal role in responding to stress. Neurons not only receive and process information from the environment but also actively respond to various stresses to promote survival. These responses include changes in the expression of molecules such as transcription factors and microRNAs that regulate stress resistance and adaptation. Moreover, both intrinsic and extrinsic stresses have a tremendous impact on neuronal development and maintenance with implications in many diseases. Here, we review the responses of neurons to various physiological stressors at the molecular and cellular level.	aging;developmental stress;neuronal homeostasis;stress responses
Dementia-like pathology in type-2 diabetes: A novel microRNA mechanism	A. Kalani, et al.	2017	28219659	Although type-2 diabetes (T2D) has been reported to increase the risk of cognitive dysfunction and dementia, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Dementia-like pathology is attributed to the accumulation of cellular prion protein (PrPc) which plays a role in cognitive dysfunction. However, its involvement and regulation in diabetic dementia-like pathology is not well understood. Using T2D db/db (leptin receptor knockout) mice subjected to object recognition and Y-maze behavioral tests, we determined that short-term memory was compromised and that the mice displayed abrupt spontaneous behaviour compared to db/m control mice. MicroRNA analysis using qRT2-PCR array demonstrated a significant reduction in the transcript expression of microRNA-146a (miR-146a) in the brain of T2D db/db mice as compared to db/m controls. The sequence matching tools validated the binding of miR-146a to a conserved domain of the PrPc gene. Administration of mouse brain endothelial cell-derived exosomes (BECDEs) loaded with miR-146a into the brain's ventricle of T2D db/db mice attenuated brain PrPc levels and restored short-term memory function though not significant. Also, we observed hyperphosphorylation of tau through decreased expression of glycogen synthase kinase-3 in T2D db/db brains that regulates microtubule organization and memory function. We conclude that underexpression of miR-146a upregulates PrPc production in T2D db/db mice and the delivery of BECDEs loaded with a miR-146a can down regulate PrPc levels and restore short term memory function up to a certain extent.	Cellular prion protein;Dementia;Diabetes;Memory;microRNA
Evidence That Up-Regulation of MicroRNA-29 Contributes to Postnatal Body Growth Deceleration	F. Kamran, et al.	2015	25866874	Body growth is rapid in infancy but subsequently slows and eventually ceases due to a progressive decline in cell proliferation that occurs simultaneously in multiple organs. We previously showed that this decline in proliferation is driven in part by postnatal down-regulation of a large set of growth-promoting genes in multiple organs. We hypothesized that this growth-limiting genetic program is orchestrated by microRNAs (miRNAs). Bioinformatic analysis identified target sequences of the miR-29 family of miRNAs to be overrepresented in age-down-regulated genes. Concomitantly, expression microarray analysis in mouse kidney and lung showed that all members of the miR-29 family, miR-29a, -b, and -c, were strongly up-regulated from 1 to 6 weeks of age. Real-time PCR confirmed that miR-29a, -b, and -c were up-regulated with age in liver, kidney, lung, and heart, and their expression levels were higher in hepatocytes isolated from 5-week-old mice than in hepatocytes from embryonic mouse liver at embryonic day 16.5. We next focused on 3 predicted miR-29 target genes (Igf1, Imp1, and Mest), all of which are growth-promoting. A 3'-untranslated region containing the predicted target sequences from each gene was placed individually in a luciferase reporter construct. Transfection of miR-29 mimics suppressed luciferase gene activity for all 3 genes, and this suppression was diminished by mutating the target sequences, suggesting that these genes are indeed regulated by miR-29. Taken together, the findings suggest that up-regulation of miR-29 during juvenile life drives the down-regulation of multiple growth-promoting genes, thus contributing to physiological slowing and eventual cessation of body growth.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Aging/genetics;Animals;Animals, Newborn;Base Sequence;Down-Regulation/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Growth and Development/ genetics;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Kidney/metabolism;Lung/metabolism;Male;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Myocardium/metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Organ Specificity/genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Up-Regulation/ genetics
MiR-124-3p attenuates hyperphosphorylation of Tau protein-induced apoptosis via caveolin-1-PI3K/Akt/GSK3beta pathway in N2a/APP695swe cells	Q. Kang, et al.	2017	28186985	Hyperphosphorylation of Tau forming neurofibrillary tangles has been considered as a crucial event in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). MiR-124-3p belongs to microRNA (miRNA) family and was markedly decreased in AD, however, the functions of miR-124-3p in the pathogenesis of AD remain unknown. We observed that the expression of miR-124-3p was significantly decreased in N2a/APP695swe cells; and transfection of miR-124-3p mimics not only attenuated cell apoptosis and abnormal hyperphosphorylation of Tau protein without any changes of total Tau protein, but also increased expression levels of Caveolin-1, phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), phospho-Akt (Akt-Ser473)/Akt, phospho-glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3beta-Ser9)/GSK-3beta in N2a/APP695swe cells. We further found that miR-12-3p directly targeted Caveolin-1; miR-124-3p inhibited abnormal hyperphosphorylation of Tau by regulating Caveolin-1-PI3K/Akt/GSK3beta pathway in AD. This study reveals that miR-124-3p may play a neuroprotective role in AD, which may provide new ideas and therapeutic targets for AD.	Alzheimer's disease;PI3K/Akt/GSK3beta;Tau;caveolin-1;miR-124-3p
Circulating miR-21, miR-146a and Fas ligand respond to postmenopausal estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy--a study with monozygotic twin pairs	R. Kangas, et al.	2014	25448133	Biological aging is associated with physiological deteriorations, which are partly due to changes in the hormonal profile. MicroRNAs regulate various processes associated with cell senescence; differentiation, replication and apoptosis. Serum microRNAs have potential to serve as noninvasive markers for diagnostics/prognostics and therapeutic targets. We analysed the association of estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy (HRT) with selected microRNAs and inflammation markers from the serum, leukocytes and muscle biopsy samples from 54 to 62 year-old postmenopausal monozygotic twins (n=11 pairs) discordant for HRT usage. Premenopausal 30-35 year-old women (n=8) were used as young controls. We focused on the hormonal aging and on the interaction between HRT use and the modulation of miR-21, miR-146a and classical inflammation markers. Fas-ligand was analysed since it functions in both apoptosis and inflammation. The inflammatory profile was healthier among the premenopausal women compared to the postmenopausal twins. Serum miR-21 and miR-146a levels and FasL concentrations were lower in HRT users compared to their non-using co-twins, demonstrating their responsiveness to HRT. Based on the pairwise FasL analysis, FasL concentration is likely to be genetically controlled. Overall, we suggest that postmenopausal estrogen deficiency sustains the development of "inflamm-aging". Estrogen sensitive, specific circulating microRNAs could be potential, early biomarkers for age-associated physiological deteriorations.	Adult;Aging/genetics/physiology;Apoptosis/drug effects/physiology;Biomarkers;Cell Aging/genetics/physiology;Cell Differentiation/drug effects/physiology;Estrogen Replacement Therapy/methods;Estrogens/ administration & dosage;Fas Ligand Protein/ blood;Female;Humans;Inflammation/blood;MicroRNAs/blood/genetics;Middle Aged;Muscle, Skeletal/pathology;Postmenopause/blood/genetics/physiology;Twins, Monozygotic;Apoptosis;Estrogen;Hormone replacement therapy;Micrornas;"Inflamm-aging"
Aging and serum exomiR content in women-effects of estrogenic hormone replacement therapy	R. Kangas, et al.	2017	28195143	Exosomes participate in intercellular messaging by transporting bioactive lipid-, protein- and RNA-molecules and -complexes. The contents of the exosomes reflect the physiological status of an individual making exosomes promising targets for biomarker analyses. In the present study we extracted exosome microRNAs (exomiRs) from serum samples of premenopausal women (n = 8) and monozygotic postmenopausal twins (n = 10 female pairs), discordant for the use of estrogenic hormone replacement therapy (HRT), in order to see whether the age or/and the use of HRT associates with exomiR content. A total of 241 exomiRs were detected by next generation sequencing, 10 showing age, 14 HRT and 10 age +HRT -related differences. When comparing the groups, differentially expressed miRs were predicted to affect cell proliferation processes showing inactivation with younger age and HRT usage. MiR-106-5p, -148a-3p, -27-3p, -126-5p, -28-3p and -30a-5p were significantly associated with serum 17beta-estradiol. MiRs formed two hierarchical clusters being indicative of positive or negative health outcomes involving associations with body composition, serum 17beta-estradiol, fat-, glucose- and inflammatory markers. Circulating exomiR clusters, obtained by NGS, could be used as indicators of metabolic and inflammatory status affected by hormonal changes at menopause. Furthermore, the individual effects of HRT-usage could be evaluated based on the serum exomiR signature.	
Declining Physical Performance Associates with Serum FasL, miR-21, and miR-146a in Aging Sprinters	R. Kangas, et al.	2017	28127562	Aging is associated with systemic inflammation and cellular apoptosis accelerating physiological dysfunctions. Whether physically active way of life affects these associations is unclear. This study measured the levels of serum inflammatory and apoptotic molecules, their change over 10 years, and their associations with physical performance in sprint-trained male athletes. HsCRP, cell counts, HGB, FasL, miR-21, and miR-146a were measured cross-sectionally (n = 67, 18-90 yrs) and serum FasL, miR-21, and miR-146a and their aging-related associations with physical performance were assessed over a 10-year follow-up (n = 49, 50-90 yrs). The cross-sectional study showed positive age correlations for neutrophils and negative for lymphocytes, red blood cells, HGB, FasL, and miR-146a. During the 10-year follow-up, FasL decreased (P = 0.017) and miR-21 (P < 0.001) and miR-146a (P = 0.005) levels increased. When combining the molecule levels, aging, and physical performance, FasL associated with countermovement jump and bench press (P < 0.001), miR-21 and miR-146a with knee flexion (P = 0.023; P < 0.001), and bench press (P = 0.004; P < 0.001) and miR-146a with sprint performance (P < 0.001). The studied serum molecules changed in an age-dependent manner and were associated with declining physical performance. They have potential as biomarkers of aging-related processes influencing the development of physiological dysfunctions. Further research is needed focusing on the origins and targets of circulating microRNAs to clarify their function in various tissues with aging.	Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/genetics/ physiology;Biomarkers/blood;Cross-Sectional Studies;Fas Ligand Protein/ blood;Follow-Up Studies;Humans;Inflammation Mediators/blood;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/genetics;Middle Aged;Physical Fitness/physiology;Running/ physiology;Young Adult
Exosomes as new diagnostic tools in CNS diseases	K. M. Kanninen, et al.	2016	26432482		Alzheimer's disease;Exosomes;MicroRNA;Multiple sclerosis;Stroke
Genetic regulation by NLA and microRNA827 for maintaining nitrate-dependent phosphate homeostasis in arabidopsis	S. Kant, et al.	2011	21455488	Plants need abundant nitrogen and phosphorus for higher yield. Improving plant genetics for higher nitrogen and phosphorus use efficiency would save potentially billions of dollars annually on fertilizers and reduce global environmental pollution. This will require knowledge of molecular regulators for maintaining homeostasis of these nutrients in plants. Previously, we reported that the NITROGEN LIMITATION ADAPTATION (NLA) gene is involved in adaptive responses to low-nitrogen conditions in Arabidopsis, where nla mutant plants display abrupt early senescence. To understand the molecular mechanisms underlying NLA function, two suppressors of the nla mutation were isolated that recover the nla mutant phenotype to wild type. Map-based cloning identified these suppressors as the phosphate (Pi) transport-related genes PHF1 and PHT1.1. In addition, NLA expression is shown to be regulated by the low-Pi induced microRNA miR827. Pi analysis revealed that the early senescence in nla mutant plants was due to Pi toxicity. These plants accumulated over five times the normal Pi content in shoots specifically under low nitrate and high Pi but not under high nitrate conditions. Also the Pi overaccumulator pho2 mutant shows Pi toxicity in a nitrate-dependent manner similar to the nla mutant. Further, the nitrate and Pi levels are shown to have an antagonistic crosstalk as displayed by their differential effects on flowering time. The results demonstrate that NLA and miR827 have pivotal roles in regulating Pi homeostasis in plants in a nitrate-dependent fashion.	Arabidopsis/ genetics/ metabolism;Arabidopsis Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Base Sequence;Flowers/drug effects/genetics/metabolism;Gene Order;Homeostasis/ genetics;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Models, Biological;Mutation;Nitrates/ metabolism/pharmacology;Phosphates/metabolism/pharmacology;Phosphorus/metabolism;Plant Shoots/genetics/metabolism;Transcription, Genetic/drug effects;Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases/genetics/ metabolism
MicroRNA in vitro diagnostics using immunoassay analyzers	A. Kappel, et al.	2015	25617425	BACKGROUND: The implementation of new biomarkers into clinical practice is one of the most important areas in medical research. Besides their clinical impact, novel in vitro diagnostic markers promise to have a substantial effect on healthcare costs. Although numerous publications report the discovery of biomarkers, only a fraction of those markers are routinely used. One key challenge is a measurement system that is compatible with clinical workflows. METHODS: We designed a new immunoassay for microRNA (miRNA) quantification. The assay combines streptavidin-linked microparticles, a biotinylated catcher oligonucleotide complementary to a single miRNA species, and finally, a monoclonal antibody to DNA/RNA heterohybrids labeled with acridinium ester. Importantly, our assay runs on standard immunoassay analyzers. After a technical validation of the assay, we evaluated the clinical performance on 4 Alzheimer disease miRNAs. RESULTS: Our assay has an analytical specificity of 99.4% and is at the same time sensitive (concentrations in the range of 1 pmol/L miRNA can be reliably profiled). Because the novel approach did not require amplification steps, we obtained high reproducibility for up to 40 biological replicates. Importantly, our assay prototype exhibited a time to result of <3 h. With human blood samples, the assay was able to measure 4 miRNAs that can detect Alzheimer disease with a diagnostic accuracy of 82% and showed a Pearson correlation >0.994 with the gold standard qRT-PCR. CONCLUSIONS: Our miRNA immunoassay allowed the measurement of miRNA signatures with sufficient analytical sensitivity and high specificity on commonly available laboratory equipment.	Alzheimer Disease/blood/ genetics;Antibodies, Monoclonal;Biomarkers/ blood;Humans;Immunoassay/instrumentation/ methods;MicroRNAs/ blood;Reproducibility of Results;Sensitivity and Specificity
Dynamics of tRNA fragments and their targets in aging mammalian brain	S. Karaiskos and A. Grigoriev	2016	28105302	Background: The progress of next-generation sequencing technologies has unveiled various non-coding RNAs that have previously been considered products of random degradation and attracted only minimal interest. Among small RNA families, microRNA (miRNAs) have traditionally been considered key post-transcriptional regulators. However, recent studies have reported evidence for widespread presence of fragments of tRNA molecules (tRFs) across a range of organisms and tissues, and of tRF involvement in Argonaute complexes. Methods:To elucidate potential tRF functionality, we compared available RNA sequencing datasets derived from the brains of young, mid-aged and old rats. Using sliding 7-mer windows along a tRF, we searched for putative seed sequences with high numbers of conserved complementary sites within 3' UTRs of 23 vertebrate genomes. We analyzed Gene Ontology term enrichment of predicted tRF targets and compared their transcript levels with targets of miRNAs in the context of age. Results and Discussion: We detected tRFs originating from 3'- and 5'-ends of tRNAs in rat brains at significant levels. These fragments showed dynamic changes: 3' tRFs monotonously increased with age, while 5' tRFs displayed less consistent patterns. Furthermore, 3' tRFs showed a narrow size range compared to 5' tRFs, suggesting a difference in their biogenesis mechanisms. Similar to our earlier results in Drosophila and compatible with other experimental findings, we found "seed" sequence locations on both ends of different tRFs. Putative targets of these fragments were found to be enriched in neuronal and developmental functions. Comparison of tRFs and miRNAs increasing in abundance with age revealed small, but distinct changes in brain target transcript levels for these two types of small RNA, with the higher proportion of tRF targets decreasing with age. We also illustrated the utility of tRF analysis for annotating tRNA genes in sequenced genomes.	aging;non-coding RNA;rat brain;rat cortex;tRNA fragments;transfer RNA
Age-driven modulation of tRNA-derived fragments in Drosophila and their potential targets	S. Karaiskos, et al.	2015	26374501	BACKGROUND: Development of sequencing technologies and supporting computation enable discovery of small RNA molecules that previously escaped detection or were ignored due to low count numbers. While the focus in the analysis of small RNA libraries has been primarily on microRNAs (miRNAs), recent studies have reported findings of fragments of transfer RNAs (tRFs) across a range of organisms. RESULTS: Here we describe Drosophila melanogaster tRFs, which appear to have a number of structural and functional features similar to those of miRNAs but are less abundant. As is the case with miRNAs, (i) tRFs seem to have distinct isoforms preferentially originating from 5' or 3' end of a precursor molecule (in this case, tRNA), (ii) ends of tRFs appear to contain short "seed" sequences matching conserved regions across 12 Drosophila genomes, preferentially in 3' UTRs but also in introns and exons; (iii) tRFs display specific isoform loading into Ago1 and Ago2 and thus likely function in RISC complexes; (iii) levels of loading in Ago1 and Ago2 differ considerably; and (iv) both tRF expression and loading appear to be age-dependent, indicating potential regulatory changes from young to adult organisms. CONCLUSIONS: We found that Drosophila tRF reads mapped to both nuclear and mitochondrial tRNA genes for all 20 amino acids, while previous studies have usually reported fragments from only a few tRNAs. These tRFs show a number of similarities with miRNAs, including seed sequences. Based on complementarity with conserved Drosophila regions we identified such seed sequences and their possible targets with matches in the 3'UTR regions. Strikingly, the potential target genes of the most abundant tRFs show significant Gene Ontology enrichment in development and neuronal function. The latter suggests that involvement of tRFs in the RNA interfering pathway may play a role in brain activity or brain changes with age.	Aging;Animals;Drosophila melanogaster/genetics/ physiology;Hybridization, Genetic;RNA, Messenger/ genetics/metabolism;RNA, Transfer/ genetics/metabolism
The conserved microRNA miR-8 tunes atrophin levels to prevent neurodegeneration in Drosophila	J. S. Karres, et al.	2007	17923093	microRNAs (miRNAs) bind to specific messenger RNA targets to posttranscriptionally modulate their expression. Understanding the regulatory relationships between miRNAs and targets remains a major challenge. Many miRNAs reduce expression of their targets to inconsequential levels. It has also been proposed that miRNAs might adjust target expression to an optimal level. Here we analyze the consequences of mutating the conserved miRNA miR-8 in Drosophila. We identify atrophin as a direct target of miR-8. miR-8 mutant phenotypes are attributable to elevated atrophin activity, resulting in elevated apoptosis in the brain and in behavioral defects. Reduction of atrophin levels in miR-8-expressing cells to below the level generated by miR-8 regulation is detrimental, providing evidence for a "tuning target" relationship between them. Drosophila atrophin is related to the atrophin family of mammalian transcriptional regulators, implicated in the neurodegenerative disorder DRPLA. The regulatory relationship between miR-8 and atrophin orthologs is conserved in mammals.	Animals;Apoptosis/physiology;Base Sequence;Behavior, Animal/physiology;Drosophila Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Drosophila melanogaster/anatomy & histology/physiology;Gene Expression Regulation;Genes, Reporter;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Mutation;Nerve Degeneration/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Phenotype;Transcription Factors/genetics/ metabolism
Can microRNAs act as biomarkers of aging?	L. Kashyap	2011	21383908	Aging can be defined as a progressive decline in physiological efficiency regulated by an extremely complex multifactorial process. The genetic makeup of an individual appears to dictate this rate of aging in a species specific manner. For decades now, scientists have tried to look for tiny signatures or signs which might help us predict this rate of aging. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a unique class of short, non-coding RNAs that mediate the post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression ranging from developmental processes to disease induction or amelioration. Recently, they have also been implicated to have a role in aging in C.elegans. Based on the fact that there is a considerable similarity between aging in C.elegans and humans, these recent findings might suggest a possible role of miRNAs as bio-markers of aging. This mini-review brushes through the possibilities towards this direction.	Aging;C.elegans;bio-markers;microRNAs
Age-associated changes in expression of small, noncoding RNAs, including microRNAs, in C. elegans	M. Kato, et al.	2011	21810936	Small, noncoding RNAs (sncRNAs), including microRNAs (miRNAs), impact diverse biological events through the control of gene expression and genome stability. However, the role of these sncRNAs in aging remains largely unknown. To understand the contribution of sncRNAs to the aging process, we performed small RNA profiling by deep-sequencing over the course of Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) aging. Many small RNAs, including a significant number of miRNAs, change their expression during aging in C. elegans. Further studies of miRNA expression changes under conditions that modify lifespan demonstrate the tight control of their expression during aging. Adult-specific loss of argonaute-like gene-1 (alg-1) activity, which is necessary for miRNA maturation and function, resulted in an abnormal lifespan, suggesting that miRNAs are, indeed, required in adulthood for normal aging. miRNA target prediction algorithms combined with transcriptome data and pathway enrichment analysis revealed likely targets of these age-associated miRNAs with known roles in aging, such as mitochondrial metabolism. Furthermore, a computational analysis of our deep-sequencing data identified additional age-associated sncRNAs, including miRNA star strands, novel miRNA candidates, and endo-siRNA sequences. We also show an increase of specific transfer RNA (tRNA) fragments during aging, which are known to be induced in response to stress in several organisms. This study suggests that sncRNAs including miRNAs contribute to lifespan regulation in C. elegans, and indicates new connections between aging, stress responses, and the small RNA world.	Aging;Animals;Base Sequence;Caenorhabditis elegans/ genetics/physiology;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;MicroRNAs/genetics;Promoter Regions, Genetic;RNA, Small Untranslated/ genetics;RNA, Transfer/genetics;Sequence Alignment;Transcriptional Activation
An intestinal microRNA modulates the homeostatic adaptation to chronic oxidative stress in C. elegans	M. Kato, et al.	2016	27623524	Adaptation to an environmental or metabolic perturbation is a feature of the evolutionary process. Recent insights into microRNA function suggest that microRNAs serve as key players in a robust adaptive response against stress in animals through their capacity to fine-tune gene expression. However, it remains largely unclear how a microRNA-modulated downstream mechanism contributes to the process of homeostatic adaptation. Here we show that loss of an intestinally expressed microRNA gene, mir-60, in the nematode C. elegans promotes an adaptive response to chronic - a mild and long-term - oxidative stress exposure. The pathway involved appears to be unique since the canonical stress-responsive factors, such as DAF-16/FOXO, are dispensable for mir-60 loss to enhance oxidative stress resistance. Gene expression profiles revealed that genes encoding lysosomal proteases and those involved in xenobiotic metabolism and pathogen defense responses are up-regulated by the loss of mir-60. Detailed genetic studies and computational microRNA target prediction suggest that endocytosis components and a bZip transcription factor gene zip-10, which functions in innate immune response, are directly modulated by miR-60 in the intestine. Our findings suggest that the mir-60 loss facilitates adaptive response against chronic oxidative stress by ensuring the maintenance of cellular homeostasis.	C. elegans;adaptive response;aging;microRNA;oxidative stress
Integrative genomic analyses of ZEB2: Transcriptional regulation of ZEB2 based on SMADs, ETS1, HIF1alpha, POU/OCT, and NF-kappaB	M. Katoh and M. Katoh	2009	19424592	Epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is defined as phenotypic change of epithelial cells into mesenchymal cells. EMT, allowing cellular dissociation from epithelial tissues, plays a key role in invasion and metastasis during carcinogenesis as well as in gastrulation and neurulation during embryogenesis. SNAI1/Snail, SNAI2/Slug, ZEB1/deltaEF1/ZFHX1A, ZEB2/SIP1/ZFHX1B, TWIST1/TWIST, and TWIST2/DERMO1 are representative EMT regulators. ZEB2 represses transcription of CDH1, CLDN4, CCND1, TERT, SFRP1, ALPL and miR-200b-200a-429 primary miRNA, and upregulates transcription of mesenchymal markers. ZEB2 is relatively highly expressed in brain corpus callosum and monocytes. ZEB2 is expressed in various types of human tumors, such as breast cancer, gastric cancer, and pancreatic cancer. TGFbeta, TNFalpha, IL1, AKT and hypoxia signals are involved in ZEB2 upregulation and EMT induction; however precise mechanisms of ZEB2 transcription remained unclear. Here, refined integrative genomic analyses of ZEB2 gene were carried out. ZEB2 was co-expressed with POU3F2 (BRN2) and POU3F3 (BRN1) in brain corpus callosum, spinal cord, and fetal brain, whereas ZEB2 was co-expressed with POU2F2 (OCT2) in monocytes. Ets-Smad-binding CGGAGAC motif, bHLH-binding site, and POU/OCT-binding site within proximal promoter region, and NF-kappaB-binding site within intron 2 were completely conserved in human ZEB2, chimpanzee ZEB2, cow ZEB2, mouse Zeb2, rat Zeb2, and chicken zeb2 genes. In addition, HIF1alpha-binding site within proximal promoter region was conserved in mammalian ZEB2 orthologs. Consensus binding site for Hedgehog effector GLI was not identified within or adjacent to the 7-kb regions of human ZEB2 gene. TGFbeta, TNFalpha, IL1, and hypoxia signals directly upregulate ZEB2 to induce EMT, growth arrest, and senescence, whereas Hedgehog signals indirectly upregulate ZEB2 via TGFbeta. Together these facts indicate that ZEB2, occupying the crossroads of inflammation, aging and carcinogenesis, is an important target for drug discovery.	Base Sequence;Conserved Sequence;Gene Expression Regulation;Genome, Human;Homeodomain Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Humans;Hypoxia-Inducible Factor 1, alpha Subunit/genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;NF-kappa B/genetics/ metabolism;POU Domain Factors/genetics/ metabolism;Promoter Regions, Genetic/genetics;Proto-Oncogene Protein c-ets-1/genetics/ metabolism;Repressor Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid;Signal Transduction;Smad Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Transforming Growth Factor beta/genetics/metabolism
MicroRNAs in Neurotoxicity	P. Kaur, et al.	2012	22523492	MicroRNAs are gaining importance as regulators of gene expression with the capability to fine-tune and modulate cellular events. The complex network with their selective targets (mRNAs/genes) pave way for regulation of many physiological processes. Dysregulation of normal neuronal activities could result in accumulation of substances that are detrimental to neuronal functions and subsequently result in neurotoxicity. Neurotoxicity-mediated pathophysiological conditions could then manifest as diseases or disabilities like Parkinson's and Alzheimer's which have debilitating implications. Such toxicity can be a result of individuals predisposed due to genetic inheritance or from other sources such as brain tumours. Neurotoxicity can also be brought about by external agents like drugs and alcohol as well as brain injury with miRNAs playing a pivotal role in diseases. It is therefore vital to understand the expression of these microRNAs and their impact on neuronal activities. In this paper, we discuss some of the neuronal pathophysiological conditions that could be caused by dysregulated microRNAs.	
Epigenome-wide DNA methylation analysis in siblings and monozygotic twins discordant for sporadic Parkinson's disease revealed different epigenetic patterns in peripheral blood mononuclear cells	O. Kaut, et al.	2017	27709425	Numerous studies have elucidated the genetics of Parkinson's disease; however, the aetiology of the majority of sporadic cases has not yet been resolved. We hypothesized that epigenetic variations could be associated with PD and evaluated the DNA methylation pattern in PD patients compared to brothers or twins without PD. The methylation of DNA from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of 62 discordant siblings including 24 monozygotic twins was characterized with Illumina DNA Methylation 450K bead arrays and subsequently validated in two independent cohorts: 221 PD vs. 227 healthy individuals (cohort 1) applying Illumina's VeraCode and 472 PD patients vs. 487 controls (cohort 2) using pyrosequencing. We choose a delta beta of >15 % and selected 62 differentially methylated CpGs in 51 genes from the discordant siblings. Among them, three displayed multiple CpGs per gene: microRNA 886 (MIR886, 10 CpGs), phosphodiesterase 4D (PDE4D, 2 CpGs) and tripartite motif-containing 34 (TRIM34, 2 CpGs). PDE4D was confirmed in both cohorts (p value 2.44e-05). In addition, for biomarker construction, we used the penalized logistic regression model, resulting in a signature of eight CpGs with an AUC of 0.77. Our findings suggest that a distinct level of PD susceptibility stems from individual, epigenetic modifications of specific genes. We identified a signature of CpGs in blood cells that could separate control from disease with a reasonable discriminatory power, holding promise for future epigenetically based biomarker development.	Biomarker;Microarray;Movement disorder;Neurodegeneration
Plasma microRNA biomarker detection for mild cognitive impairment using differential correlation analysis	M. Kayano, et al.	2016	27999671	BACKGROUND: Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is an intermediate state between normal aging and dementia including Alzheimer's disease. Early detection of dementia, and MCI, is a crucial issue in terms of secondary prevention. Blood biomarker detection is a possible way for early detection of MCI. Although disease biomarkers are detected by, in general, using single molecular analysis such as t-test, another possible approach is based on interaction between molecules. RESULTS: Differential correlation analysis, which detects difference on correlation of two variables in case/control study, was carried out to plasma microRNA (miRNA) expression profiles of 30 age- and race-matched controls and 23 Japanese MCI patients. The 20 pairs of miRNAs, which consist of 20 miRNAs, were selected as MCI markers. Two pairs of miRNAs (hsa-miR-191 and hsa-miR-101, and hsa-miR-103 and hsa-miR-222) out of 20 attained the highest area under the curve (AUC) value of 0.962 for MCI detection. Other two miRNA pairs that include hsa-miR-191 and hsa-miR-125b also attained high AUC value of >/= 0.95. Pathway analysis was performed to the MCI markers for further understanding of biological implications. As a result, collapsed correlation on hsa-miR-191 and emerged correlation on hsa-miR-125b might have key role in MCI and dementia progression. CONCLUSION: Differential correlation analysis, a bioinformatics tool to elucidate complicated and interdependent biological systems behind diseases, detects effective MCI markers that cannot be found by single molecule analysis such as t-test.	Alzheimer's disease;Coexpression;Dementia;Molecular network
Broad distribution of ataxin 1 silencing in rhesus cerebella for spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 therapy	M. S. Keiser, et al.	2015	26490326	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 is one of nine polyglutamine expansion diseases and is characterized by cerebellar ataxia and neuronal degeneration in the cerebellum and brainstem. Currently, there are no effective therapies for this disease. Previously, we have shown that RNA interference mediated silencing of ATXN1 mRNA provides therapeutic benefit in mouse models of the disease. Adeno-associated viral delivery of an engineered microRNA targeting ATXN1 to the cerebella of well-established mouse models improved motor phenotypes, neuropathy, and transcriptional changes. Here, we test the translatability of this approach in adult rhesus cerebella. Nine adult male and three adult female rhesus macaque were unilaterally injected with our therapeutic vector, a recombinant adeno-associated virus type 1 (rAAV1) expressing our RNAi trigger (miS1) and co-expressing enhanced green fluorescent protein (rAAV1.miS1eGFP) into the deep cerebellar nuclei using magnetic resonance imaging guided techniques combined with a Stealth Navigation system (Medtronics Inc.). Transduction was evident in the deep cerebellar nuclei, cerebellar Purkinje cells, the brainstem and the ventral lateral thalamus. Reduction of endogenous ATXN1 messenger RNA levels were >/=30% in the deep cerebellar nuclei, the cerebellar cortex, inferior olive, and thalamus relative to the uninjected hemisphere. There were no clinical complications, and quantitative and qualitative analyses suggest that this therapeutic intervention strategy and subsequent reduction of ATXN1 is well tolerated. Collectively the data illustrate the biodistribution and tolerability of rAAV1.miS1eGFP administration to the adult rhesus cerebellum and are supportive of clinical application for spinocerebellar ataxia type 1.	Animals;Ataxin-1/ deficiency/genetics;Brain Stem/metabolism;Cerebellar Nuclei/ metabolism;Dependovirus;Female;Genetic Therapy/ methods;Macaca mulatta;Male;Purkinje Cells/metabolism;RNA Interference;Spinocerebellar Ataxias/ genetics/ therapy;Thalamus/metabolism;Transduction, Genetic;ataxia;gene therapy;neurodegeneration;spinocerebellar ataxia
Validating Alzheimer's disease micro RNAs using next-generation sequencing	A. Keller, et al.	2016	26806387	INTRODUCTION: Molecular biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) can support detection and improved care for patients, but novel candidates require verification. We previously reported a 12-micro RNA (miRNA) blood-based signature using next-generation sequencing (NGS) of 54 AD cases and 22 controls. METHODS: We performed validation of 49 AD cases and 55 controls using NGS and also included 20 mild cognitive impairment and 90 multiple sclerosis samples to identify nonspecific markers. Thus, 103 AD cases, 77 unaffected controls, and 110 diseased controls were sequenced. Although the initial cohort came predominantly from the United States, the validation samples were collected in Germany. RESULTS: Five hundred eighty miRNAs were detected in the blood. In the initial cohort, we observed 203, in the validation cohort, 146 dysregulated miRNAs at a significance level of 0.05. With 68 miRNAs, the overlap was significant (P = .0003). Likewise, the area under the receiver operator characteristic curve values of the miRNAs correlated (correlation of 0.93; 95% confidence interval 0.89-0.96; P <10(-16)). DISCUSSION: MiRNAs have the potential to support AD diagnosis and patient care.	Alzheimer's disease;Biomarker;Validation;miRNA
Lineage stem cell lines: test tubes to build pathophysiological scenarios and discover therapeutic targets	O. Kellermann	2014	24853966		Cell Differentiation;Cytogenetics/ history/ methods/trends;Embryonic Stem Cells/ drug effects/ physiology;History, 20th Century;History, 21st Century;Stem Cell Research/ history;Therapeutics;1C11 cell line;Antidepressants;Francois Jacob;MicroRNA-16;Prion and Alzheimer's diseases;Teratocarcinoma
The cognitive defects of neonatally irradiated mice are accompanied by changed synaptic plasticity, adult neurogenesis and neuroinflammation	S. J. Kempf, et al.	2014	25515237	BACKGROUND/PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: Epidemiological evidence suggests that low doses of ionising radiation (</=1.0 Gy) produce persistent alterations in cognition if the exposure occurs at a young age. The mechanisms underlying such alterations are unknown. We investigated the long-term effects of low doses of total body gamma radiation on neonatally exposed NMRI mice on the molecular and cellular level to elucidate neurodegeneration. RESULTS: Significant alterations in spontaneous behaviour were observed at 2 and 4 months following a single 0.5 or 1.0 Gy exposure. Alterations in the brain proteome, transcriptome, and several miRNAs were analysed 6-7 months post-irradiation in the hippocampus, dentate gyrus (DG) and cortex. Signalling pathways related to synaptic actin remodelling such as the Rac1-Cofilin pathway were altered in the cortex and hippocampus. Further, synaptic proteins MAP-2 and PSD-95 were increased in the DG and hippocampus (1.0 Gy). The expression of synaptic plasticity genes Arc, c-Fos and CREB was persistently reduced at 1.0 Gy in the hippocampus and cortex. These changes were coupled to epigenetic modulation via increased levels of microRNAs (miR-132/miR-212, miR-134). Astrogliosis, activation of insulin-growth factor/insulin signalling and increased level of microglial cytokine TNFalpha indicated radiation-induced neuroinflammation. In addition, adult neurogenesis within the DG was persistently negatively affected after irradiation, particularly at 1.0 Gy. CONCLUSION: These data suggest that neurocognitive disorders may be induced in adults when exposed at a young age to low and moderate cranial doses of radiation. This raises concerns about radiation safety standards and regulatory practices.	Animals;Animals, Newborn;Behavior, Animal/radiation effects;Brain/ radiation effects;Cognition/ radiation effects;Fluorescent Antibody Technique;Immunoblotting;Immunohistochemistry;Male;Mice;Neurogenesis/ radiation effects;Neuronal Plasticity/ radiation effects;Radiation Injuries, Experimental;Signal Transduction/radiation effects
An integrated proteomics approach shows synaptic plasticity changes in an APP/PS1 Alzheimer's mouse model	S. J. Kempf, et al.	2016	27144524	The aim of this study was to elucidate the molecular signature of Alzheimer's disease-associated amyloid pathology.We used the double APPswe/PS1DeltaE9 mouse, a widely used model of cerebral amyloidosis, to compare changes in proteome, including global phosphorylation and sialylated N-linked glycosylation patterns, pathway-focused transcriptome and neurological disease-associated miRNAome with age-matched controls in neocortex, hippocampus, olfactory bulb and brainstem. We report that signalling pathways related to synaptic functions associated with dendritic spine morphology, neurite outgrowth, long-term potentiation, CREB signalling and cytoskeletal dynamics were altered in 12 month old APPswe/PS1DeltaE9 mice, particularly in the neocortex and olfactory bulb. This was associated with cerebral amyloidosis as well as formation of argyrophilic tangle-like structures and microglial clustering in all brain regions, except for brainstem. These responses may be epigenetically modulated by the interaction with a number of miRNAs regulating spine restructuring, Abeta expression and neuroinflammation.We suggest that these changes could be associated with development of cognitive dysfunction in early disease states in patients with Alzheimer's disease.	Pathology Section;miRNA;neuroinflammation;proteomics;synapse;tau protein
Immunosenescence-Related Transcriptomic and Immunologic Changes in Older Individuals Following Influenza Vaccination	R. B. Kennedy, et al.	2016	27853459	The goal of annual influenza vaccination is to reduce mortality and morbidity associated with this disease through the generation of protective immune responses. The objective of the current study was to examine markers of immunosenescence and identify immunosenescence-related differences in gene expression, gene regulation, cytokine secretion, and immunologic changes in an older study population receiving seasonal influenza A/H1N1 vaccination. Surprisingly, prior studies in this cohort revealed weak correlations between immunosenescence markers and humoral immune response to vaccination. In this report, we further examined the relationship of each immunosenescence marker (age, T cell receptor excision circle frequency, telomerase expression, percentage of CD28- CD4+ T cells, percentage of CD28- CD8+ T cells, and the CD4/CD8 T cell ratio) with additional markers of immune response (serum cytokine and chemokine expression) and measures of gene expression and/or regulation. Many of the immunosenescence markers indeed correlated with distinct sets of individual DNA methylation sites, miRNA expression levels, mRNA expression levels, serum cytokines, and leukocyte subsets. However, when the individual immunosenescence markers were grouped by pathways or functional terms, several shared biological functions were identified: antigen processing and presentation pathways, MAPK, mTOR, TCR, BCR, and calcium signaling pathways, as well as key cellular metabolic, proliferation and survival activities. Furthermore, the percent of CD4+ and/or CD8+ T cells lacking CD28 expression also correlated with miRNAs regulating clusters of genes known to be involved in viral infection. Integrated (DNA methylation, mRNA, miRNA, and protein levels) network biology analysis of immunosenescence-related pathways and genesets identified both known pathways (e.g., chemokine signaling, CTL, and NK cell activity), as well as a gene expression module not previously annotated with a known function. These results may improve our ability to predict immune responses to influenza and aid in new vaccine development, and highlight the need for additional studies to better define and characterize immunosenescence.	DNA methylation;aging;gene expression profiling;immunity;influenza A/H1N1 virus;influenza vaccines;miRNA
Electrical stimulation counteracts muscle decline in seniors	H. Kern, et al.	2014	25104935	The loss in muscle mass coupled with a decrease in specific force and shift in fiber composition are hallmarks of aging. Training and regular exercise attenuate the signs of sarcopenia. However, pathologic conditions limit the ability to perform physical exercise. We addressed whether electrical stimulation (ES) is an alternative intervention to improve muscle recovery and defined the molecular mechanism associated with improvement in muscle structure and function. We analyzed, at functional, structural, and molecular level, the effects of ES training on healthy seniors with normal life style, without routine sport activity. ES was able to improve muscle torque and functional performances of seniors and increased the size of fast muscle fibers. At molecular level, ES induced up-regulation of IGF-1 and modulation of MuRF-1, a muscle-specific atrophy-related gene. ES also induced up-regulation of relevant markers of differentiating satellite cells and of extracellular matrix remodeling, which might guarantee shape and mechanical forces of trained skeletal muscle as well as maintenance of satellite cell function, reducing fibrosis. Our data provide evidence that ES is a safe method to counteract muscle decline associated with aging.	Igf-1;aging;electrical stimulation;extracellular matrix;microRNA;muscle atrophy;muscle performance;satellite cells
MicroRNA - a contributor to age-associated neural stem cell dysfunction?	M. A. Khan and D. C. Lie	2011	21415460		
Subtractive hybridization-mediated analysis of genes and in silico prediction of associated microRNAs under waterlogged conditions in sugarcane (Saccharum spp.)	M. S. Khan, et al.	2014	25009768	Sugarcane is an important tropical cash crop meeting 75% of world sugar demand and it is fast becoming an energy crop for the production of bio-fuel ethanol. A considerable area under sugarcane is prone to waterlogging which adversely affects both cane productivity and quality. In an effort to elucidate the genes underlying plant responses to waterlogging, a subtractive cDNA library was prepared from leaf tissue. cDNA clones were sequenced and annotated for their putative functions. Major groups of ESTs were related to stress (15%), catalytic activity (13%), cell growth (10%) and transport related proteins (6%). A few stress-related genes were identified, including senescence-associated protein, dehydration-responsive family protein, and heat shock cognate 70 kDa protein. A bioinformatics search was carried out to discover novel microRNAs (miRNAs) that can be regulated in sugarcane plants subjected to waterlogging stress. Taking advantage of the presence of miRNA precursors in the related sorghum genome, seven candidate mature miRNAs were identified in sugarcane. The application of subtraction technology allowed the identification of differentially expressed sequences and novel miRNAs in sugarcane under waterlogging stress. The comparative global transcript profiling in sugarcane plants undertaken in this study suggests that proteins associated with stress response, signal transduction, metabolic activity and ion transport play important role in conferring waterlogging tolerance in sugarcane.	ABA, abscisic acid;ADF, actin depolymerizing factor;Est;ESTs, expressed sequence tags;Hsps, heat shock proteins;Novel miRNAs;PTGS, post-transcriptional gene silencing;REMs, remorins;SSA, snow pea pod senescence-associated;SUCEST, sugarcane EST database;Sugarcane;Suppression subtractive hybridization;TGS, transcriptional gene silencing;Waterlogging stress
MicroRNA related polymorphisms and breast cancer risk	S. Khan, et al.	2014	25390939	Genetic variations, such as single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in microRNAs (miRNA) or in the miRNA binding sites may affect the miRNA dependent gene expression regulation, which has been implicated in various cancers, including breast cancer, and may alter individual susceptibility to cancer. We investigated associations between miRNA related SNPs and breast cancer risk. First we evaluated 2,196 SNPs in a case-control study combining nine genome wide association studies (GWAS). Second, we further investigated 42 SNPs with suggestive evidence for association using 41,785 cases and 41,880 controls from 41 studies included in the Breast Cancer Association Consortium (BCAC). Combining the GWAS and BCAC data within a meta-analysis, we estimated main effects on breast cancer risk as well as risks for estrogen receptor (ER) and age defined subgroups. Five miRNA binding site SNPs associated significantly with breast cancer risk: rs1045494 (odds ratio (OR) 0.92; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.88-0.96), rs1052532 (OR 0.97; 95% CI: 0.95-0.99), rs10719 (OR 0.97; 95% CI: 0.94-0.99), rs4687554 (OR 0.97; 95% CI: 0.95-0.99, and rs3134615 (OR 1.03; 95% CI: 1.01-1.05) located in the 3' UTR of CASP8, HDDC3, DROSHA, MUSTN1, and MYCL1, respectively. DROSHA belongs to miRNA machinery genes and has a central role in initial miRNA processing. The remaining genes are involved in different molecular functions, including apoptosis and gene expression regulation. Further studies are warranted to elucidate whether the miRNA binding site SNPs are the causative variants for the observed risk effects.	3' Untranslated Regions;Binding Sites;Breast Neoplasms/ diagnosis/ genetics;Case-Control Studies;Chromosome Mapping;Computational Biology;Female;Genome-Wide Association Study;Genotype;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Receptors, Estrogen/metabolism
Transcriptome Profiling of Developing Murine Lens Through RNA Sequencing	S. Y. Khan, et al.	2015	26225632	PURPOSE: Transcriptome is the entire repertoire of transcripts present in a cell at any particular time. We undertook a next-generation whole transcriptome sequencing approach to gain insight into the transcriptional landscape of the developing mouse lens. METHODS: We ascertained mouse lenses at six developmental time points including two embryonic (E15 and E18) and four postnatal stages (P0, P3, P6, and P9). The ocular tissue at each time point was maintained as two distinct pools serving as biological replicates for each developmental stage. The mRNA and small RNA libraries were paired-end sequenced on Illumina HiSeq 2000 and subsequently analyzed using bioinformatics tools. RESULTS: Mapping of mRNA and small RNA libraries generated 187.56 and 154.22 million paired-end reads, respectively. We detected a total of 14,465 genes in the mouse ocular lens at the above-mentioned six developmental stages. Of these, 46 genes exhibited a 40-fold differential (higher or lower) expression at one the five developmental stages (E18, P0, P3, P6, and P9) compared with their expression level at E15. Likewise, small RNA profiling identified 379 microRNAs (miRNAs) expressed in mouse lens at six developmental time points. Of these, 49 miRNAs manifested an 8-fold differential (higher or lower) expression at one the five developmental stages, as mentioned above compared with their expression level at E15. CONCLUSIONS: We report a comprehensive profile of developing murine lens transcriptome including both mRNA and miRNA through next-generation RNA sequencing. A complete repository of the lens transcriptome of six developmental time points will be monumental in elucidating processes essential for the development of the ocular lens and maintenance of its transparency.	Animals;Animals, Newborn;Cataract/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Computational Biology/ methods;Disease Models, Animal;Female;Gene Expression Profiling/ methods;Gene Library;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Lens, Crystalline/ metabolism/pathology;Mice;Organogenesis/ genetics;Pregnancy;Pregnancy, Animal;RNA, Messenger/ genetics/metabolism
Gain of survival signaling by down-regulation of three key miRNAs in brain of calorie-restricted mice	A. Khanna, et al.	2011	21415464	The decline in cognitive robustness with aging can be attributed to complex genetic pathways involving many cellular dysfunctions, cumulative over time, precipitating in frailty and loss of wellness in the elderly brain. The size and health of the neuronal cell population determines cognitive robustness in mammals. A transgenic mouse model over-expressing Bcl-2 has been shown to rescue neurons from naturally occurring cell death (NOCD). Here we show that in the brain of calorie-restricted (CR) mice, there is an age-dependent decreased expression of microRNAs mmu-miR-181a-1*, mmu-miR-30e and mmu-miR-34a, with a corresponding gain in Bcl-2 expression, and decreases in pro-apoptosis genes such as Bax and cleavage of Caspases. Functional characterization shows that these miRNAs repress Bcl-2 expression by the 3'UTR reporter assays, accompanied by loss of this gene's endogenous expression, and a gain in pro-apoptosome-specific proteins. Over-expression of these miRNAs increases the rate of apoptosis, accompanied by a decline in Bcl-2 expression in miRNA-transfected mouse and human cell lines. We report here that down-regulation of miR-34a, -30e, and -181a permits their shared target gene expression (Bcl-2) to remain at a high level without post-transcriptional repression, accompanied by concomitant low levels of Bax expression and Caspase cleaving; this chain event may be a part of the underlying mechanism contributing to the gain in neuronal survival in long-lived CR-fed mice.	3' Untranslated Regions;Aging/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Brain/ metabolism/pathology;Caloric Restriction;Caspase 3/metabolism;Caspase 9/metabolism;Cell Line;Cell Survival;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression;Genes, bcl-2;Humans;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Models, Biological;Signal Transduction;bcl-2-Associated X Protein/metabolism
Transcriptomic Analysis of Drosophila Mushroom Body Neurons Lacking Amyloid-beta Precursor-Like Protein Activity	M. R. Khanna and M. E. Fortini	2015	26402626	The amyloid-beta protein precursor (AbetaPP) is subjected to sequential intramembrane proteolysis by alpha-, beta-, andgamma-secretases, producing secreted amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides and a cytoplasmically released AbetaPP Intracellular Domain (AICD). AICD complexes with transcription factors in the nucleus, suggesting that this AbetaPP fragment serves as an active signaling effector that regulates downstream genes, although its nuclear targets are poorly defined. To further understand this potential signaling mechanism mediated by AbetaPP, we performed a transcriptomic identification of the Drosophila genome that is regulated by the fly AbetaPP orthologue in fly mushroom body neurons, which control learning- and memory-based behaviors. We find significant changes in expression of 245 genes, representing approximately 1.6% of the Drosophila genome, with the changes ranging from +6 fold to -40 fold. The largest class of responsive targets corresponds to non-protein coding genes and includes microRNAs that have been previously implicated in Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology. Several genes were identified in our Drosophila microarray analyses that have also emerged as putative AbetaPP targets in similar mammalian transcriptomic studies. Our results also indicate a role for AbetaPP in cellular pathways involving the regulation of Drosophila Casein Kinase II, mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, RNA processing, and innate immunity. Our findings provide insights into the intracellular events that are regulated by AbetaPP activity in healthy neurons and that might become dysregulated as a result of abnormal AbetaPP proteolysis in AD.	Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/ deficiency/genetics;Animals;Drosophila;Drosophila Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation/ genetics;Green Fluorescent Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;Microarray Analysis;Mushroom Bodies/ cytology;Neurons/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger;Transcriptome;Appl;Alzheimer's disease;AbetaPP;amyloid-beta protein precursor;microarray;mushroom body;transcriptional regulation
Expression of senescence-associated microRNAs and target genes in cellular aging and modulation by tocotrienol-rich fraction	S. G. Khee, et al.	2014	25132913	Emerging evidences highlight the implication of microRNAs as a posttranscriptional regulator in aging. Several senescence-associated microRNAs (SA-miRNAs) are found to be differentially expressed during cellular senescence. However, the role of dietary compounds on SA-miRNAs remains elusive. This study aimed to elucidate the modulatory role of tocotrienol-rich fraction (TRF) on SA-miRNAs (miR-20a, miR-24, miR-34a, miR-106a, and miR-449a) and established target genes of miR-34a (CCND1, CDK4, and SIRT1) during replicative senescence of human diploid fibroblasts (HDFs). Primary cultures of HDFs at young and senescent were incubated with TRF at 0.5 mg/mL. Taqman microRNA assay showed significant upregulation of miR-24 and miR-34a and downregulation of miR-20a and miR-449a in senescent HDFs (P < 0.05). TRF reduced miR-34a expression in senescent HDFs and increased miR-20a expression in young HDFs and increased miR-449a expression in both young and senescent HDFs. Our results also demonstrated that ectopic expression of miR-34a reduced the expression of CDK4 significantly (P < 0.05). TRF inhibited miR-34a expression thus relieved its inhibition on CDK4 gene expression. No significant change was observed on the expression of CCND1, SIRT1, and miR-34a upstream transcriptional regulator, TP53. In conclusion tocotrienol-rich fraction prevented cellular senescence of human diploid fibroblasts via modulation of SA-miRNAs and target genes expression.	Antioxidants/pharmacology;Cell Aging/ drug effects;Cells, Cultured;Cyclin D1/genetics/metabolism;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 4/genetics/metabolism;Fibroblasts/cytology/drug effects/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation/ drug effects;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Sirtuin 1/genetics/metabolism;Tocotrienols/ pharmacology;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/metabolism
microRNAs and oligometastasis	N. N. Khodarev, et al.	2015	25868522		Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Neoplasm Metastasis;Neoplasms/metabolism
Targeting alpha-synuclein with a microRNA-embedded silencing vector in the rat substantia nigra: positive and negative effects	C. E. Khodr, et al.	2014	24463035	BACKGROUND: Alpha-synuclein (SNCA) downregulation shows therapeutic potential for synucleinopathies, including Parkinson's disease (PD). Previously we showed that human (h)SNCA gene silencing using a short hairpin (sh)RNA in rat substantia nigra (SN) protects against a hSNCA-induced forelimb deficit, but not dopamine (DA) neuron loss. Furthermore, the shRNA increases cell death in vitro, but the same target sequence embedded in a microRNA30 transcript (mir30-hSNCA) does not. OBJECTIVE: Examine hSNCA gene silencing using mir30-hSNCA in vivo. METHODS: Rats were stereotaxically injected into one SN with adeno-associated virus serotype 2/8 (AAV)-hSNCA, AAV-hSNCA plus AAV-mir30-SNCA or AAV-hSNCA plus a control non-silencing mir30-embedded siRNA and DA neuron markers and associated behavior were examined. RESULTS: AAV2/8-mediated SN hSNCA expression induces a forelimb deficit and tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-IR) neuron loss. hSNCA gene silencing using mir30-hSNCA protects against this forelimb deficit at 2 m and ameliorates TH-IR neuron loss. Striatal (ST) TH-IR fiber density and DA markers, assessed by western blot, are unaffected by AAV-hSNCA alone. Co-expression of either silencing vector reduces ST TH-IR fibers, panTH in SN and Ser40 phosphorylated TH in SN and ST, but does not affect vesicular monoamine transporter-2. However, hSNCA gene silencing promotes partial TH-IR fiber recovery by 2 m. Co-expression of either silencing vector also induces SN inflammation, although some recovery was observed by 2 m in hSNCA-silenced SN. CONCLUSION: hSNCA gene silencing with AAV-mir30-hSNCA has positive effects on forelimb behavior and SN DA neurons, which are compromised by inflammation and reduced TH expression, suggesting that AAV2/8-mir30-hSNCA-mediated gene silencing, although promising in vitro, is not a candidate for therapeutic translation for PD.	Animals;Corpus Striatum/metabolism/pathology;Dependovirus/genetics;Dopamine/metabolism;Forelimb/physiopathology;Gene Transfer Techniques;Genetic Vectors;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Motor Activity/physiology;Movement Disorders/metabolism/pathology;Neurons/metabolism/pathology;RNA Interference;RNA, Small Interfering/metabolism;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Substantia Nigra/ metabolism/pathology;Tyrosine 3-Monooxygenase/metabolism;Vesicular Monoamine Transport Proteins/metabolism;alpha-Synuclein/ genetics/ metabolism;Gene therapy;Neurodegeneration;RNAi;Substantia nigra;Tyrosine hydroxylase
Inclusion of a portion of the native SNCA 3'UTR reduces toxicity of human S129A SNCA on striatal-projecting dopamine neurons in rat substantia nigra	C. E. Khodr, et al.	2012	22021082	Experimental models of Parkinson's disease (PD) created by aberrant expression of the alpha-synuclein (SNCA) coding region have been reported. However, noncoding regions function in normal physiology and recent in vitro studies have shown that microRNAs-7 and -153 regulate SNCA expression by binding the 3'UTR. Here, effects of different hSNCA forms were examined in vivo. Adult, male rats were injected into one substantia nigra (SN) with AAV-wtSNCA, AAV-S129A hSNCA, or AAV-S129D hSNCA either with or without a portion of the native 3'UTR. DA neurons in SN that maintained striatal (ST) projections at the end of treatment were retrogradely labeled by bilateral ST fluorogold (FG) injections and FG-positive DA neurons in SN were counted. At 5 weeks, hSNCA coding vectors reduced numbers of FG-positive neurons in injected SN compared with uninjected SN (wtSNCA, p = 0.05; S129A/D hSNCA, p = 0.01). At 7 and 9 weeks, wtSNCA- and S129D hSNCA-treated rats exhibited recovery, but S129A hSNCA-injected rats did not (p = 0.01). In contrast, numbers of FG-positive neurons were unaffected by hSNCA expression when the 3'UTR was included. When FG-positive neurons were expressed as the ratio of numbers in injected to uninjected sides, the S129A hSNCA coding vector resulted in the highest decrease at 9 weeks versus wtSNCA (p = 0.05) or S129D hSNCA (p = 0.01). Inclusion of the 3'UTR resulted in no significant differences in FG-positive neuron ratios. These data suggest that inclusion of the 3'UTR protects against S129A hSNCA-induced loss of nigrostriatal-projecting DA neurons in vivo and that mis-regulation of hSNCA expression and function at noncoding regions contribute to PD pathogenesis.	3' Untranslated Regions/ genetics;Animals;Corpus Striatum/ metabolism/pathology;Disease Models, Animal;Dopaminergic Neurons/ metabolism/pathology;Genetic Therapy;Male;Nerve Degeneration/ metabolism/pathology;Neural Pathways/metabolism/pathology;Parkinson Disease/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Phosphorylation;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Substantia Nigra/ metabolism/pathology;alpha-Synuclein/ genetics/metabolism
Expression of zTOR-associated microRNAs in zebrafish embryo treated with rapamycin	E. S. Khor, et al.	2016	26916825	AIMS: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are vital in modulating lifespan and various biological processes including vascular function. The pivotal roles of mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) in regulating senescence and angiogenesis have been extensively described. However, the roles of its orthologue, zebrafish target of rapamycin (zTOR) in senescence and angiogenesis remain to be unravelled. In the present study, we aimed to investigate the role of zTOR and identify miRNAs associated with senescence and angiogenesis. MAIN METHODS: Zebrafish embryos were treated with rapamycin and the inhibition of zTOR and its downstream proteins were validated by immunoblotting. Following the treatment, melanocyte density was quantitated, and senescence and angiogenic responses were determined by senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-gal) and endogenous alkaline phosphatase (ALP) staining, respectively. Relative expression of microRNAs were determined by quantitative RT-PCR. KEY FINDINGS: Rapamycin (400 nM) suppressed zTOR pathway by down-regulating the phosphorylation of zTOR-associated proteins such as P70S6K and S6K at both 4h post-fertilisation (hpf) and 8hpf while 4E-BP1 was only down-regulated at 8hpf when compared to their respective vehicle controls. Treatment with rapamycin also resulted in significant suppression of melanocyte development and senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-gal) activity, and perturbed the development of intersegmental vessels (ISVs) of zebrafish embryos. In addition, the expressions of dre-miR-9-5p and -3p, dre-miR-25-3p and dre-miR-124-3p were significantly up-regulated in embryos treated with rapamycin from 4hpf. SIGNIFICANCE: Our findings suggest the involvement of zTOR in embryonic senescence and angiogenesis which could be potentially mediated by selected miRNAs.	Aging/genetics;Alkaline Phosphatase/metabolism;Animals;Down-Regulation/drug effects;Embryo, Nonmammalian;Melanocytes/drug effects;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/drug effects/genetics;Neovascularization, Physiologic/genetics;Sirolimus/ pharmacology;Transcription Factors/ biosynthesis/genetics;Zebrafish;Zebrafish Proteins/ biosynthesis/genetics;beta-Galactosidase/biosynthesis/genetics;Aging;Embryonic development;Mammalian target of rapamycin
Effect of maternal undernutrition on vascular expression of micro and messenger RNA in newborn and aging offspring	O. Khorram, et al.	2010	20200130	The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that maternal undernutrition (MUN) alters offspring vascular expression of micro-RNAs (miRNAs), which, in turn, could regulate the expression of a host of genes involved with angiogenesis and extracellular matrix remodeling. The expression of miRNA and mRNA in the same aortic specimens in 1-day-old (P1) and 12-mo-old offspring aortas of dams, which had 50% food restriction from gestation day 10 to term, was determined by specific rat miRNA and DNA arrays. MUN significantly downregulated the expression of miRNAs 29c, 183, and 422b in the P1 group and 200a, 129, 215, and 200b in the 12-mo group, and upregulated the expression of miRNA 189 in the P1 group and 337 in the 12-mo group. The predicted target genes of the miRNAs altered in the two age groups fell into the categories of: 1) structural genes, such as collagen, elastin, and enzymes involved in ECM remodeling; and 2) angiogenic factors. MUN primarily altered the expression of mRNAs in the functional category of cell cycle/mitosis in the P1 group and anatomic structure and apoptosis in the 12-mo age group. Several of the predicted target genes of miRNAs altered in response to MUN were identified by the DNA array including integrin-beta(1) in the P1 aortas and stearoyl-CoA desaturase-1 in the 12-mo age groups. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that MUN modulation of offspring gene expression may be mediated in part by a miRNA mechanism.	Age Factors;Aging/genetics;Animals;Aorta/ physiology;Epigenesis, Genetic/physiology;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Male;Malnutrition/ genetics/physiopathology;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Neovascularization, Physiologic/ genetics;Pregnancy;Pregnancy Complications/ genetics/physiopathology;Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects/ genetics/physiopathology;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction
The Interplay of MicroRNAs in the Inflammatory Mechanisms Following Ischemic Stroke	S. E. Khoshnam, et al.	2017	28535304	Immunity and inflammation are important parameters of the pathophysiology of stroke, a destructive illness that is the second most common cause of death worldwide. Following ischemic stroke, neuroinflammation plays a critical role in neurodegeneration and brain injury. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of endogenously expressed, noncoding RNA molecules that function to inhibit mRNA translation. Recent studies demonstrate that miRNAs are key regulators of inflammatory processes contributing to ischemic stroke injuries. Several miRNAs, and their target genes, have been shown to play a critical role in the innate inflammatory responses mediated by immune cells. The capacity of miRNAs to regulate several target genes demonstrates their exceptional importance in neuroinflammatory therapeutics following ischemic stroke. In this review, we focus on the miRNAs associated with ischemic neuroinflammation and describe the potential of miRNAs as biomarkers of neuroinflammation and promising therapeutic agents for modulation of deleterious inflammatory responses following ischemic stroke.	Inflammation;Stroke.;miRNA
MicroRNAs in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid as potential markers for Alzheimer's disease	T. Kiko, et al.	2014	24157723	The development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) biomarkers remains an unmet challenge, and new approaches that can improve current AD biomarker strategies are needed. Recent reports suggested that microRNA (miRNA) profiling of biological fluids has emerged as a diagnostic tool for several pathologic conditions. In this study, we measured six candidate miRNAs (miR-9, miR-29a, miR-29b, miR-34a, miR-125b, and miR-146a) in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of AD and normal subjects by using quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) to evaluate their potential usability as AD biomarkers. The qRT-PCR results showed that plasma miR-34a and miR-146a levels, and CSF miR-34a, miR-125b, and miR-146a levels in AD patients were significantly lower than in control subjects. On the other hand, CSF miR-29a and miR-29b levels were significantly higher than in control subjects. Our results provide a possibility that miRNAs detected in plasma and CSF can serve as biomarkers for AD.	Age Factors;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ blood/ cerebrospinal fluid/diagnosis;Amyloid beta-Peptides/cerebrospinal fluid;Biomarkers/blood/cerebrospinal fluid;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/ cerebrospinal fluid;Peptide Fragments/cerebrospinal fluid;Psychiatric Status Rating Scales;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;tau Proteins/cerebrospinal fluid;Alzheimer's disease;cerebrospinal fluid;miRNA;plasma
Expansion induced microRNA changes in bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells reveals interplay between immune regulation and cell cycle	L. Kilpinen, et al.	2016	27852979	Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) are currently used in many cell based therapies. Prior to use in therapy, extensive expansion is required. We used microarray profiling to investigate expansion induced miRNA and mRNA expression changes of bone marrow MSCs (BM-MSCs) derived from old and young donors. The expression levels of 36 miRNAs were altered in cells derived from the old and respectively 39 miRNAs were altered in cells derived from young donors. Of these, only 12 were differentially expressed in both young and old donor BM-MSCs, and their predicted target mRNAs, were mainly linked to cell proliferation and senescence. Further qPCR verification showed that the expression of miR-1915-3p, miR-1207, miR-3665, and miR-762 correlated with the expansion time at passage 8. Previously described BM-MSC-specific miRNA fingerprints were also detected but these remained unchanged during expansion. Interestingly, members of well-studied miR-17/92 cluster, involved in cell cycle regulation, aging and also development of immune system, were down-regulated specifically in cells from old donors. The role of this cluster in MSC functionality is worth future studies since it links expansion, aging and immune system together.	Socs3;mesenchymal stromal cells;microRNA;senescence
Profiling age-related epigenetic markers of stomach adenocarcinoma in young and old subjects	B. C. Kim, et al.	2015	25983541	The purpose of our study is to identify epigenetic markers that are differently expressed in the stomach adenocarcinoma (STAD) condition. Based on data from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), we were able to detect an age-related difference in methylation patterns and changes in gene and miRNA expression levels in young (n = 14) and old (n = 70) STAD subjects. Our analysis identified 323 upregulated and 653 downregulated genes in old STAD subjects. We also found 76 miRNAs with age-related expression patterns and 113 differentially methylated genes (DMGs), respectively. Our further analysis revealed that significant upregulated genes (n = 35) were assigned to the cell cycle, while the muscle system process (n = 27) and cell adhesion-related genes (n = 57) were downregulated. In addition, by comparing gene and miRNA expression with methylation change, we identified that three upregulated genes (ELF3, IL1beta, and MMP13) known to be involved in inflammatory responses and cell growth were significantly hypomethylated in the promoter region. We further detected target candidates for age-related, downregulated miRNAs (hsa-mir-124-3, hsa-mir-204, and hsa-mir-125b-2) in old STAD subjects. This is the first report of the results from a study exploring age-related epigenetic biomarkers of STAD using high-throughput data and provides evidence for a complex clinicopathological condition expressed by the age-related STAD progression.	DNA methylation;RNAseq;Tcga;age;miRNA;stomach adenocarcinoma
Wig1 prevents cellular senescence by regulating p21 mRNA decay through control of RISC recruitment	B. C. Kim, et al.	2012	23085987	Premature senescence, a key strategy used to suppress carcinogenesis, can be driven by p53/p21 proteins in response to various stresses. Here, we demonstrate that Wig1 plays a critical role in this process through regulation of p21 mRNA stability. Wig1 controls the association of Argonaute2 (Ago2), a central component of the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC), with target p21 mRNA via binding of the stem-loop structure near the microRNA (miRNA) target site. Depletion of Wig1 prohibited miRNA-mediated p21 mRNA decay and resulted in premature senescence. Wig1 plays an essential role in cell proliferation, as demonstrated in tumour xenografts in mice, and Wig1 and p21 mRNA levels are inversely correlated in human normal and cancer tissues. Together, our data indicate a novel role of Wig1 in RISC target accessibility, which is a key step in RNA-mediated gene silencing. In addition, these findings indicate that fine-tuning of p21 levels by Wig1 is essential for the prevention of cellular senescence.	Animals;Argonaute Proteins/metabolism;Carrier Proteins/ metabolism;Cell Aging;Cell Line, Tumor;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/ metabolism;Humans;Lung Neoplasms/metabolism;Mice;Neoplasm Transplantation;Nuclear Proteins/ metabolism;RNA Stability/ physiology;RNA-Induced Silencing Complex/ metabolism
Nuclear Argonaute 2 regulates adipose tissue-derived stem cell survival through direct control of miR10b and selenoprotein N1 expression	B. S. Kim, et al.	2011	21241449	Argonaute 2 (Ago2) has a leading function in miRNA-induced RNA silencing, a conserved gene regulatory mechanism in cells and organisms. miRNAs are critical for stem cell self-renewal, development, and other functions. Here, we report that nuclear Ago2, by binding to a specific region of functional genes, directly controls adipose tissue-derived stem cell (ATSC) survival in response to a critical dose of reactive oxygen species (ROS)-mediated oxidative cell damage or senescence. The role of nuclear Ago2 has not been previously reported. Here, we show that human ATSCs in which Ago2 was downregulated underwent apoptosis. Silencing of Ago2 in ATSCs significantly induces upregulation of miR10b and miR23b expression. These miRNAs directly interfere with ROS-scavenging gene expression, such as TXNL1 and GPX3. Upregulation of miR10b and miR23b is sufficient to induce ATSC cell apoptosis via p38 MAPK phosphorylation and caspase 3 activation. In addition, Ago2 overexpression or interference by miR10b and miR23b expression in ATSCs partially rescued H(2) O(2) /ROS-mediated apoptotic cell death by upregulating the expression of TXNL2, JUNK, caspase-3, and cytochrome C. Nuclear Ago2-mediated miR10b and miR23b downregulation also allows cells to escape senescence, which results in telomerase reverse transcriptase, stemness overexpression, and improved self-renewal and differentiation through Wnt5a/beta-catenin activation. Argonaute 2 expression is critical for stem cells to escape senescence by downregulating miR10b and miR23b. The Ago2-binding gene selenoprotein N1 (SEPN1) was also effectively involved in ATSC survival and self-renewal through ROS-mediated p38 MAPK inactivation.	Adipose Tissue/ cytology;Apoptosis/physiology;Argonaute Proteins;Base Sequence;Cell Nucleus/ metabolism;Cell Proliferation;Cell Survival/ physiology;Cells, Cultured;Eukaryotic Initiation Factor-2/genetics/ metabolism;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Humans;JNK Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases/metabolism;Membrane Glycoproteins/genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Muscle Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Receptors, Immunologic/genetics/ metabolism;Selenoproteins/genetics/ metabolism;Stem Cells/cytology/ physiology;p38 Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases/metabolism
HuR recruits let-7/RISC to repress c-Myc expression	H. H. Kim, et al.	2009	19574298	RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) and microRNAs (miRNAs) are potent post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression. Here, we show that the RBP HuR reduced c-Myc expression by associating with the c-Myc 3' untranslated region (UTR) next to a miRNA let-7-binding site. Lowering HuR or let-7 levels relieved the translational repression of c-Myc. Unexpectedly, HuR and let-7 repressed c-Myc through an interdependent mechanism, as let-7 required HuR to reduce c-Myc expression and HuR required let-7 to inhibit c-Myc expression. Our findings suggest a regulatory paradigm wherein HuR inhibits c-Myc expression by recruiting let-7-loaded RISC (RNA miRNA-induced silencing complex) to the c-Myc 3'UTR.	3' Untranslated Regions;Antigens, Surface/ metabolism;Argonaute Proteins;Base Sequence;ELAV Proteins;ELAV-Like Protein 1;Eukaryotic Initiation Factor-2/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;HeLa Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-myc/genetics/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;RNA-Binding Proteins/ metabolism;RNA-Induced Silencing Complex/ metabolism
LncRNA OIP5-AS1/cyrano sponges RNA-binding protein HuR	J. Kim, et al.	2016	26819413	The function of the vast majority of mammalian long noncoding (lnc) RNAs remains unknown. Here, analysis of a highly abundant mammalian lncRNA, OIP5-AS1, known as cyrano in zebrafish, revealed that OIP5-AS1 reduces cell proliferation. In human cervical carcinoma HeLa cells, the RNA-binding protein HuR, which enhances cell proliferation, associated with OIP5-AS1 and stabilized it. Tagging OIP5-AS1 with MS2 hairpins to identify associated microRNAs revealed that miR-424 interacted with OIP5-AS1 and competed with HuR for binding to OIP5-AS1. We further identified a 'sponge' function for OIP5-AS1, as high levels of OIP5-AS1 increased HuR-OIP5-AS1 complexes and prevented HuR interaction with target mRNAs, including those that encoded proliferative proteins, while conversely, lowering OIP5-AS1 increased the abundance of HuR complexes with target mRNAs. We propose that OIP5-AS1 serves as a sponge or a competing endogenous (ce)RNA for HuR, restricting its availability to HuR target mRNAs and thereby repressing HuR-elicited proliferative phenotypes.	ADAM Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Binding, Competitive;Cell Proliferation/genetics;ELAV-Like Protein 1/antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;HeLa Cells;Humans;Membrane Proteins/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Protein Binding;RNA, Long Noncoding/ genetics/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/ genetics/metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics/metabolism;Recombinant Fusion Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction
To grow old: regulatory role of ethylene and jasmonic acid in senescence	J. Kim, et al.	2015	25688252	Senescence, the final stage in the development of an organ or whole plant, is a genetically programmed process controlled by developmental and environmental signals. Age-related signals underlie the onset of senescence in specific organs (leaf, flower, and fruit) as well as the whole plant (monocarpic senescence). Rudimentary to most senescence processes is the plant hormone ethylene, a small gaseous molecule critical to diverse processes throughout the life of the plant. The role of ethylene in senescence was discovered almost 100 years ago, but the molecular mechanisms by which ethylene regulates senescence have been deciphered more recently primarily through genetic and molecular studies in Arabidopsis. Jasmonic acid (JA), another plant hormone, is emerging as a key player in the control of senescence. The regulatory network of ethylene and JA involves the integration of transcription factors, microRNAs, and other hormones. In this review, we summarize the current understanding of ethylene's role in senescence, and discuss the interplay of ethylene with JA in the regulation of senescence.	cross-talk;ethylene;jasmonic acid;leaf senescence;miRNA;transcription factors
miR-186 is decreased in aged brain and suppresses BACE1 expression	J. Kim, et al.	2016	26710318	Accumulation of amyloid beta (Abeta) in the brain is a key pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Because aging is the most prominent risk factor for AD, understanding the molecular changes during aging is likely to provide critical insights into AD pathogenesis. However, studies on the role of miRNAs in aging and AD pathogenesis have only recently been initiated. Identifying miRNAs dysregulated by the aging process in the brain may lead to novel understanding of molecular mechanisms of AD pathogenesis. Here, we identified that miR-186 levels are gradually decreased in cortices of mouse brains during aging. In addition, we demonstrated that miR-186 suppresses beta-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) expression by directly targeting the 3'UTR of Bace1 mRNA in neuronal cells. In contrast, inhibition of endogenous miR-186 significantly increased BACE1 levels in neuronal cells. Importantly, miR-186 over-expression significantly decreased Abeta level by suppressing BACE1 expression in cells expressing human pathogenic mutant amyloid precursor protein. Taken together, our data demonstrate that miR-186 is a potent negative regulator of BACE1 in neuronal cells and it may be one of the molecular links between brain aging and the increased risk for AD during aging. We identified that miR-186 levels are gradually decreased in mouse cortices during aging. Furthermore, we demonstrated that miR-186 is a novel negative regulator of beta-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) expression in neuronal cells. Therefore, we proposed that reduction in miR-186 levels during aging may lead to the up-regulation of BACE1 in the brain, thereby increasing a risk for Alzheimer's disease in aged individuals. Read the Editorial Highlight for this article on page 308.	3' Untranslated Regions;Aging/ metabolism;Alzheimer Disease/metabolism;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/ biosynthesis/ genetics;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/biosynthesis/genetics;Animals;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/ biosynthesis/ genetics;Base Sequence;Brain Chemistry/ genetics;Cerebral Cortex/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Mutation;Neurons/metabolism;Alzheimer's disease;Abeta;Bace1;aging;miR-186;microRNA
microRNA-33 Regulates ApoE Lipidation and Amyloid-beta Metabolism in the Brain	J. Kim, et al.	2015	26538644	UNLABELLED: Dysregulation of amyloid-beta (Abeta) metabolism is critical for Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. Mounting evidence suggests that apolipoprotein E (ApoE) is involved in Abeta metabolism. ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) is a key regulator of ApoE lipidation, which affects Abeta levels. Therefore, identifying regulatory mechanisms of ABCA1 expression in the brain may provide new therapeutic targets for AD. Here, we demonstrate that microRNA-33 (miR-33) regulates ABCA1 and Abeta levels in the brain. Overexpression of miR-33 impaired cellular cholesterol efflux and dramatically increased extracellular Abeta levels by promoting Abeta secretion and impairing Abeta clearance in neural cells. In contrast, genetic deletion of mir-33 in mice dramatically increased ABCA1 levels and ApoE lipidation, but it decreased endogenous Abeta levels in cortex. Most importantly, pharmacological inhibition of miR-33 via antisense oligonucleotide specifically in the brain markedly decreased Abeta levels in cortex of APP/PS1 mice, representing a potential therapeutic strategy for AD. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Brain lipid metabolism, in particular Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) lipidation, is critical to Abeta metabolism and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Brain lipid metabolism is largely separated from the periphery due to blood-brain barrier and different repertoire of lipoproteins. Therefore, identifying the novel regulatory mechanism of brain lipid metabolism may provide a new therapeutic strategy for AD. Although there have been studies on brain lipid metabolism, its regulation, in particular by microRNAs, is relatively unknown. Here, we demonstrate that inhibition of microRNA-33 increases lipidation of brain ApoE and reduces Abeta levels by inducing ABCA1. We provide a unique approach for AD therapeutics to increase ApoE lipidation and reduce Abeta levels via pharmacological inhibition of microRNA in vivo.	Amyloid beta-Peptides/genetics/ metabolism;Animals;Apolipoproteins E/ metabolism;Base Sequence;Brain/ metabolism;Humans;Lipid Metabolism/ physiology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Knockout;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Molecular Sequence Data;Abca1;Alzheimer's disease;ApoE;abeta;miR-33
MiR-106b impairs cholesterol efflux and increases Abeta levels by repressing ABCA1 expression	J. Kim, et al.	2012	22119192	ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) is a cholesterol transporter that transfers excess cellular cholesterol onto lipid-poor apolipoproteins. Given its critical role in cholesterol homeostasis, ABCA1 has been studied as a therapeutic target for Alzheimer's disease. Transcriptional regulation of ABCA1 by liver X receptor has been well characterized. However, whether ABCA1 expression is regulated at the posttranscriptional level is largely unknown. Identification of a novel pathway that regulates ABCA1 expression may provide new strategy for regulating cholesterol metabolism and amyloid beta (Abeta) levels. Since ABCA1 has an unusually long 3' untranslated region, we investigated whether microRNAs could regulate ABCA1 expression. We identified miR-106b as a novel regulator of ABCA1 expression and Abeta metabolism. miR-106b significantly decreased ABCA1 levels and impaired cellular cholesterol efflux in neuronal cells. Furthermore, miR-106b dramatically increased levels of secreted Abeta by increasing Abeta production and preventing Abeta clearance. Alterations in Abeta production and clearance were rescued by expression of miR-106b-resistant ABCA1. Taken together, our data suggest that miR-106b affects Abeta metabolism by suppressing ABCA1 expression.	ATP Binding Cassette Transporter 1;ATP-Binding Cassette Transporters/ antagonists & inhibitors/biosynthesis/genetics;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ biosynthesis/genetics/physiology;Animals;Biological Transport, Active/genetics;Cells, Cultured;Cholesterol/ metabolism;Down-Regulation/ genetics;Hep G2 Cells;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Signal Transduction/genetics;Up-Regulation/ genetics
Reverse Expression of Aging-Associated Molecules through Transfection of miRNAs to Aged Mice	J. H. Kim, et al.	2017	28325277	Molecular changes during aging have been studied to understand the mechanism of aging progress. Herein, changes in microRNA (miRNA) expression in the whole blood of mice were studied to systemically reverse aging and propose them as non-invasive biomarkers. Through next-generation sequencing analysis, we selected 27 differentially expressed miRNAs during aging. The most recognized function involved was liver steatosis, a type of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Among 27 miRNAs, six were predicted to be involved in NAFLD, miR-16-5p, miR-17-5p, miR-21a-5p, miR-30c-5p, miR-103-3p, and miR-130a-3p; alterations in their blood and liver levels were confirmed by real-time qPCR. The expression of the genes associated in the network of these miRNAs, Bcl2, Ppara, E2f1, E2f2, Akt, Ccnd1, and Smad2/3, also was altered in the liver of aged mice. Following transfection of these miRNAs into 18-month-old mice, levels of miR-21a-5p, miR-103-3p, and miR-30c-5p increased, and their related genes exhibited a reversed expression in the liver. Expression of Mre11a, p16INK4a, and Mtor, reported to be aging-associated molecules, also was reversed in the livers of miRNA-transfected mice. These miRNAs could be non-invasive biomarkers for aging, and they might induce a reverse regulation of aging-associated pathways. This study provides preliminary data on reverse aging, which could be applied further for treatments of adult diseases.	aging biomarker;circulating miRNA;non-alcoholic fatty liver disease;reverse aging;telomerase
Sirtuin7 oncogenic potential in human hepatocellular carcinoma and its regulation by the tumor suppressors MiR-125a-5p and MiR-125b	J. K. Kim, et al.	2013	23079745	UNLABELLED: Sirtuins are nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide oxidized form (NAD(+) )-dependent deacetylases and function in cellular metabolism, stress resistance, and aging. For sirtuin7 (SIRT7), a role in ribosomal gene transcription is proposed, but its function in cancer has been unclear. In this study we show that SIRT7 expression was up-regulated in a large cohort of human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients. SIRT7 knockdown influenced the cell cycle and caused a significant increase of liver cancer cells to remain in the G1 /S phase and to suppress growth. This treatment restored p21(WAF1/Cip1) , induced Beclin-1, and repressed cyclin D1. In addition, sustained suppression of SIRT7 reduced the in vivo tumor growth rate in a mouse xenograft model. To explore mechanisms in SIRT7 regulation, microRNA (miRNA) profiling was carried out. This identified five significantly down-regulated miRNAs in HCC. Bioinformatics analysis of target sites and ectopic expression in HCC cells showed that miR-125a-5p and miR-125b suppressed SIRT7 and cyclin D1 expression and induced p21(WAF1/Cip1) -dependent G1 cell cycle arrest. Furthermore, treatment of HCC cells with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine or ectopic expression of wildtype but not mutated p53 restored miR-125a-5p and miR-125b expression and inhibited tumor cell growth, suggesting their regulation by promoter methylation and p53 activity. To show the clinical significance of these findings, mutations in the DNA binding domain of p53 and promoter methylation of miR-125b were investigated. Four out of nine patients with induced SIRT7 carried mutations in the p53 gene and one patient showed hypermethylation of the miR-125b promoter region. CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest the oncogenic potential of SIRT7 in hepatocarcinogenesis. A regulatory loop is proposed whereby SIRT7 inhibits transcriptional activation of p21(WAF1/Cip1) by way of repression of miR-125a-5p and miR-125b. This makes SIRT7 a promising target in cancer therapy. (HEPATOLOGY 2013).	Animals;Carcinoma, Hepatocellular/ genetics/metabolism;Cell Line, Tumor;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/ genetics;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Genetic Therapy/methods;Genomics;Humans;Liver Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/ genetics;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Sirtuins/ genetics/metabolism;Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays
Genome-wide profiling of the microRNA-mRNA regulatory network in skeletal muscle with aging	J. Y. Kim, et al.	2014	25063768	Skeletal muscle degenerates progressively, losing mass (sarcopenia) over time, which leads to reduced physical ability and often results in secondary diseases such as diabetes and obesity. The regulation of gene expression by microRNAs is a key event in muscle development and disease. To understand genome-wide changes in microRNAs and mRNAs during muscle aging, we sequenced microRNAs and mRNAs from mouse gastrocnemius muscles at two different ages (6 and 24 months). Thirty-four microRNAs (15 up-regulated and 19 down-regulated) were differentially expressed with age, including the microRNAs miR-206 and -434, which were differentially expressed in aged muscle in previous studies. Interestingly, eight microRNAs in a microRNA cluster at the imprinted Dlk1-Dio3 locus on chromosome 12 were coordinately down-regulated. In addition, sixteen novel microRNAs were identified. Integrative analysis of microRNA and mRNA expression revealed that microRNAs may contribute to muscle aging through the positive regulation of transcription, metabolic processes, and kinase activity. Many of the age-related microRNAs have been implicated in human muscular diseases. We suggest that genome-wide microRNA profiling will expand our knowledge of microRNA function in the muscle aging process.	Aging/ physiology;Animals;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation/physiology;Genome;Male;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Muscle Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Muscle, Skeletal/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/ metabolism
miR-526b targets 3' UTR of MMP1 mRNA	K. H. Kim, et al.	2015	26292968	Regulation of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) is important for many physiological processes involving cancers, inflammation, tissue remodeling and skin aging. Here, we report the novel finding that the expression of MMP1 mRNA is downregulated by the overexpression of miR-526b which is a member of chromosome 19 microRNA cluster (C19MC). Our analysis using reporter constructs containing the 3' untranslated region (3' UTR) of MMP1 and its mutant form showed that the region from 377-383 in the 3' UTR of MMP1 is critical for targeting by miR-526b. In addition, the expression pattern of miR-526b and MMP1 mRNA showed reverse relation between adult dermal and neonatal fibroblasts. We show for the first time that miR-526b, an miRNA belonging to C19MC, can target the 377-383 region of the MMP1 3' UTR.	3' Untranslated Regions;Adult;Base Sequence;Cell Line;Down-Regulation;Fibroblasts/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;HeLa Cells;Humans;Matrix Metalloproteinase 1/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics;RNA, Messenger/ genetics
miR-182 is a negative regulator of osteoblast proliferation, differentiation, and skeletogenesis through targeting FoxO1	K. M. Kim, et al.	2012	22431396	Uncontrolled oxidative stress impairs bone formation and induces age-related bone loss in humans. The FoxO family is widely accepted to play an important role in protecting diverse cells from reactive oxygen species (ROS). Activation of FoxO1, the main FoxO in bone, stimulates proliferation and differentiation as well as inhibits apoptosis of osteoblast lineage cells. Despite the important role of FoxO1, little is known about how FoxO1 expression in bone is regulated. Meanwhile, several recent studies reported that microRNAs (miRNAs) could play a role in osteoblast differentiation and bone formation by targeting various transcriptional factors. Here, we identified one additional crucial miRNA, miR-182, which regulates osteoblastogenesis by repressing FoxO1 and thereby negatively affecting osteogenesis. Overexpression of miR-182 in osteoblast lineage cells increased cell apoptosis and inhibited osteoblast differentiation, whereas in vivo overexpression of miR-182 in zebrafish impaired bone formation. From in silico analysis and validation experiments, FoxO1 was identified as the target of miR-182, and restoration of FoxO1 expression in miR-182-overexpressing osteoblasts rescued them from the inhibitory effects of miR-182. These results indicate that miR-182 functions as a FoxO1 inhibitor to antagonize osteoblast proliferation and differentiation, with a subsequent negative effect on osteogenesis. To treat bone aging, an antisense approach targeting miR-182 could be of therapeutic value.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Base Sequence;Bone and Bones/metabolism;Cell Differentiation/ genetics;Cell Line;Cell Proliferation;Cell Survival;Forkhead Box Protein O1;Forkhead Transcription Factors/genetics/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Models, Animal;Molecular Sequence Data;Osteoblasts/ cytology/metabolism;Osteogenesis/ genetics;Skull/cytology;Zebrafish/metabolism;Zebrafish Proteins/genetics/ metabolism
Induction of cellular senescence by insulin-like growth factor binding protein-5 through a p53-dependent mechanism	K. S. Kim, et al.	2007	17804819	The insulin-like growth factor (IGF) signaling pathway plays a crucial role in the regulation of cell growth, differentiation, apoptosis, and aging. IGF-binding proteins (IGFBPs) are important members of the IGF axis. IGFBP-5 is up-regulated during cellular senescence in human dermal fibroblasts and endothelial cells, but the function of IGFBP-5 in cellular senescence is unknown. Here we show that IGFBP-5 plays important roles in the regulation of cellular senescence. Knockdown of IGFBP-5 in old human umbilical endothelial cells (HUVECs) with IGFBP-5 micro-RNA lentivirus caused partial reduction of a variety of senescent phenotypes, such as changes in cell morphology, increases in cell proliferation, and decreases in senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-gal) staining. In addition, treatment with IGFBP-5 protein or up-regulation of IGFBP-5 in young cells accelerates cellular senescence, as confirmed by cell proliferation and SA-beta-gal staining. Premature senescence induced by IGFBP-5 up-regulation in young cells was rescued by knockdown of p53, but not by knockdown of p16. Furthermore, atherosclerotic arteries exhibited strong IGFBP-5-positive staining along intimal plaques. These results suggest that IGFBP-5 plays a role in the regulation of cellular senescence via a p53-dependent pathway and in aging-associated vascular diseases.	Atherosclerosis/immunology/metabolism/pathology;Cell Aging/drug effects/ physiology;Cell Cycle/drug effects;Cells, Cultured;DNA/genetics;DNA Damage/genetics;Endothelial Cells/cytology/drug effects/metabolism;Humans;Insulin-Like Growth Factor Binding Protein;5/genetics/immunology/ metabolism/pharmacology;MicroRNAs/genetics;Protein Processing, Post-Translational;Signal Transduction;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/ metabolism;Umbilical Cord/cytology/drug effects/metabolism;Up-Regulation/drug effects
A multifunctional protein EWS regulates the expression of Drosha and microRNAs	K. Y. Kim, et al.	2014	24185621	EWS (Ewing's Sarcoma) gene encodes an RNA/DNA-binding protein that is ubiquitously expressed and involved in various cellular processes. EWS deficiency leads to impaired development and early senescence through unknown mechanisms. We found that EWS regulates the expression of Drosha and microRNAs (miRNAs). EWS deficiency resulted in increased expression of Drosha, a well-known microprocessor, and increased levels of miR-29b and miR-18b. Importantly, miR-29b and miR-18b were directly involved in the post-transcriptional regulation of collagen IV alpha 1 (Col4a1) and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) in EWS knock-out (KO) mouse embryonic fibroblast cells. The upregulation of Drosha, miR-29b and miR-18b and the sequential downregulation of Col4a1 and CTGF contributed to the deregulation of dermal development in EWS KO mice. Otherwise, knockdown of Drosha rescued miRNA-dependent downregulation of Col4a1 and CTGF proteins. Taken together, our data indicate that EWS is involved in post-transcriptional regulation of Col4a1 and CTGF via a Drosha-miRNA-dependent pathway. This finding suggests that EWS has a novel role in dermal morphogenesis through the modulation of miRNA biogenesis.	Animals;Cell Line;Collagen Type IV/genetics/metabolism;Connective Tissue Growth Factor/genetics/metabolism;Down-Regulation;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;RNA Interference;RNA, Small Interfering/metabolism;RNA-Binding Protein EWS/deficiency/genetics/ metabolism;Ribonuclease III/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;Up-Regulation
Bioinformatic and metabolomic analysis reveals miR-155 regulates thiamine level in breast cancer	S. Kim, et al.	2015	25484137	microRNA-155 (miR-155) is one of the well-known oncogenic miRNA implicated in various types of tumors. Thiamine, commonly known as vitamin B1, is one of critical cofactors for energy metabolic enzymes including pyruvate dehydrogenase, alpha ketoglutarate dehydrogenase, and transketolase. Here we report a novel role of miR-155 in cancer metabolism through the up-regulation of thiamine in breast cancer cells. A bioinformatic analysis of miRNA array and metabolite-profiling data from NCI-60 cancer cell panel revealed thiamine as a metabolite positively correlated with the miR-155 expression level. We confirmed it in MCF7, MDA-MB-436 and two human primary breast cancer cells by showing reduced thiamine levels upon a knock-down of miR-155. To understand how the miR-155 controls thiamine level, a set of key molecules for thiamine homeostasis were further analyzed after the knockdown of miR-155. The results showed the expression of two thiamine transporter genes (SLC19A2, SLC25A19) as well as thiamine pyrophosphokinase-1 (TPK1) were decreased in both RNA and protein level in miR-155 dependent manner. Finally, we confirm the finding by showing a positive correlation between miR-155 and thiamine level in 71 triple negative breast tumors. Taken altogether, our study demonstrates a role of miR-155 in thiamine homeostasis and suggests a function of this oncogenic miRNA on breast cancer metabolism.	Blotting, Western;Breast Neoplasms/ genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Cell Line, Tumor;Chromatography, Liquid;Computational Biology/methods;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;HEK293 Cells;HeLa Cells;Homeostasis;Humans;MCF-7 Cells;Membrane Transport Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Metabolomics/methods;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis/methods;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Tandem Mass Spectrometry;Thiamin Pyrophosphokinase/genetics/metabolism;Thiamine/ metabolism;Triple Negative Breast Neoplasms/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Breast cancer;Slc19a2;Slc25a19;Tpk1;Thiamine;miR-155
Loss of oncogenic miR-155 in tumor cells promotes tumor growth by enhancing C/EBP-beta-mediated MDSC infiltration	S. Kim, et al.	2016	26848978	The oncogenic role of microRNA-155 (miR-155) in leukemia is well established but its role in other cancers, especially breast cancer, is gradually emerging. In this study we examined the effect of mir-155 loss in a well-characterized spontaneous breast cancer mouse model where Brca1 and Trp53 are deleted by K14-Cre. miR-155 is known to be up-regulated in BRCA1-deficient tumors. Surprisingly, complete loss of miR-155 (miR-155ko/ko) did not alter the tumor free survival of the mutant mice. However, we found increased infiltration of myeloid derived suppressor cells (MDSCs) in miR-155 deficient tumors. In addition, cytokine/chemokine array analysis revealed altered level of cytokines that are implicated in the recruitment of MDSCs. Mechanistically, we identified C/EBP-beta, a known miR-155 target, to regulate the expression of these cytokines in the miR-155-deficient cells. Furthermore, using an allograft model, we showed that inhibition of miR-155 in cancer cells suppressed in vivo growth, which was restored by the loss of miR-155 in the microenvironment. Taken together, we have uncovered a novel tumor suppressive function of miR-155 in the tumor microenvironment, which is also dependent on miR-155 expression in the tumor cells. Because of the oncogenic as well as tumor suppressive roles of miR-155, our findings warrant caution against a systemic inhibition of miR-155 for anticancer therapy.	C/EBP-beta;Mdsc;breast cancer;cytokine;miR-155
Consumption of high-dose vitamin C (1250 mg per day) enhances functional and structural properties of serum lipoprotein to improve anti-oxidant, anti-atherosclerotic, and anti-aging effects via regulation of anti-inflammatory microRNA	S. M. Kim, et al.	2015	26333284	Background Although the health effects of vitamin C are well known, its physiological effect on serum lipoproteins and microRNA still remain to be investigated, especially daily consumption of a high dosage. Objectives To investigate the physiological effect of vitamin C on serum lipoprotein metabolism in terms of its anti-oxidant and anti-glycation activities, and gene expression via microRNA regulation. Methods We analyzed blood parameters and lipoprotein parameters in young subjects (n = 46, 22 +/- 2 years old) including smokers who consumed a high dose of vitamin C (1250 mg) daily for 8 weeks. Results Antioxidant activity of serum was enhanced with the elevation of Vit C content in plasma during 8 weeks consumption. In the LDL fraction, the apo-B48 band disappeared at 8 weeks post-consumption in all subjects. In the HDL fraction, apoA-I expression was enhanced by 20% at 8 weeks, especially in male smokers. In the lipoprotein fraction, all subjects showed significantly reduced contents of advanced glycated end products and reactive oxygen species (ROS). Triglyceride (TG) contents in each LDL and HDL fraction were significantly reduced in all groups following the Vit C consumption, suggesting that the lipoprotein was changed to be more anti-inflammatory and atherogenic properties. Phagocytosis of LDL, which was purified from each individual, into macrophages was significantly reduced at 8-weeks post-consumption of vitamin C. Anti-inflammatory and anti-senescence effects of HDL from all subjects were enhanced after the 8-weeks consumption. The expression level of microRNA 155 in HDL3 was reduced by 49% and 75% in non-smokers and smokers, respectively. Conclusion The daily consumption of a high dose of vitamin C for 8 weeks resulted in enhanced anti-senescence and anti-atherosclerotic effects via an improvement of lipoprotein parameters and microRNA expression through anti-oxidation and anti-glycation, especially in smokers.	Adult;Aging/drug effects/metabolism;Anti-Inflammatory Agents/metabolism;Antioxidants/metabolism/pharmacology;Apolipoprotein A-I;Ascorbic Acid/ administration & dosage;Cardiovascular Agents/pharmacology;Dietary Supplements;Female;Healthy Volunteers;Humans;Lipoproteins/ blood/chemistry;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood;Oxidation-Reduction/drug effects;Smoking/metabolism;Triglycerides/metabolism;Vitamins/ administration & dosage;Young Adult
MiR-186, miR-216b, miR-337-3p, and miR-760 cooperatively induce cellular senescence by targeting alpha subunit of protein kinase CKII in human colorectal cancer cells	S. Y. Kim, et al.	2012	23137536	We previously demonstrated that downregulation of protein kinase CKII induces cellular senescence in human colon cancer HCT116 cells. To investigate the role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in CKII downregulation during senescence, we employed computational algorithms. Four miRNAs (miR-186, miR-216b, miR-337-3p, and miR-760) were predicted to be miRNAs against CKIIalpha mRNA. Mimics of all four miRNAs jointly downregulated CKIIalpha expression in HCT116 cells. Reporter analysis and RT-PCR have suggested that these four miRNAs may stimulate degradation of CKIIalpha mRNA by targeting its 3' untranslated regions (UTRs). The four miRNA mimics increased senescent-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-gal) staining, p53 and p21(Cip1/WAF1) expression, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production. In contrast, concomitant knockdown of the four miRNAs by antisense inhibitors increased the CKIIalpha protein level and suppressed CKII inhibition-mediated senescence. Finally, CKIIalpha overexpression antagonized senescence induced by the four miRNA mimics. Therefore, the present results show that miR-186, miR-216b, miR-337-3p, and miR-760 cooperatively promote cellular senescence through the p53-p21(Cip1/WAF1) pathway by CKII downregulation-mediated ROS production in HCT116 cells.	3' Untranslated Regions;Casein Kinase II/ biosynthesis/genetics;Cell Aging;Colorectal Neoplasms/ enzymology;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/biosynthesis;Gene Knockdown Techniques;HCT116 Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/biosynthesis;beta-Galactosidase/metabolism
miR-126 contributes to Parkinson's disease by dysregulating the insulin-like growth factor/phosphoinositide 3-kinase signaling	W. Kim, et al.	2014	24559646	Dopamine (DA) neurons in sporadic Parkinson's disease (PD) display dysregulated gene expression networks and signaling pathways that are implicated in PD pathogenesis. Micro (mi)RNAs are regulators of gene expression, which could be involved in neurodegenerative diseases. We determined the miRNA profiles in laser microdissected DA neurons from postmortem sporadic PD patients' brains and age-matched controls. DA neurons had a distinctive miRNA signature and a set of miRNAs was dysregulated in PD. Bioinformatics analysis provided evidence for correlations of miRNAs with signaling pathways relevant to PD, including an association of miR-126 with insulin/IGF-1/PI3K signaling. In DA neuronal cell systems, enhanced expression of miR-126 impaired IGF-1 signaling and increased vulnerability to the neurotoxin 6-OHDA by downregulating factors in IGF-1/PI3K signaling, including its targets p85beta, IRS-1, and SPRED1. Blocking of miR-126 function increased IGF-1 trophism and neuroprotection to 6-OHDA. Our data imply that elevated levels of miR-126 may play a functional role in DA neurons and in PD pathogenesis by downregulating IGF-1/PI3K/AKT signaling and that its inhibition could be a mechanism of neuroprotection.	Brain/metabolism;Cells, Cultured;Dopaminergic Neurons/ metabolism;Down-Regulation/drug effects;Gene Expression Regulation/ genetics;Humans;Insulin-Like Growth Factor I/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Oxidopamine/toxicity;Parkinson Disease/ genetics/metabolism;Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases/ metabolism;Signal Transduction/drug effects/genetics/ physiology;6-OHDA neurotoxicity;Cell systems;Dopamine neurons;IGF-1 signaling;Insulin;Laser capture microdissection;Pi3k;Parkinson's disease;Postmortem;miR-126;miRNAs
Uvrag targeting by Mir125a and Mir351 modulates autophagy associated with Ewsr1 deficiency	Y. Kim, et al.	2015	25946189	The EWSR1 (EWS RNA-binding protein 1/Ewing Sarcoma Break Point Region 1) gene encodes a RNA/DNA binding protein that is ubiquitously expressed and involved in various cellular processes. EWSR1 deficiency leads to impairment of development and accelerated senescence but the mechanism is not known. Herein, we found that EWSR1 modulates the Uvrag (UV radiation resistance associated) gene at the post-transcription level. Interestingly, EWSR1 deficiency led to the activation of the DROSHA-mediated microprocessor complex and increased the level of Mir125a and Mir351, which directly target Uvrag. Moreover, the Mir125a- and Mir351-mediated reduction of Uvrag was associated with the inhibition of autophagy that was confirmed in ewsr1 knockout (KO) MEFs and ewsr1 KO mice. Taken together, our data indicate that EWSR1 is involved in the post-transcriptional regulation of Uvrag via a miRNA-dependent pathway, resulting in the deregulation of autophagy inhibition. The mechanism of Uvrag and autophagy regulation by EWSR1 provides new insights into the role of EWSR1 deficiency-related cellular dysfunction.	Animals;Autophagy/genetics;Base Sequence;Calmodulin-Binding Proteins/ deficiency/metabolism;Down-Regulation/genetics;Embryo, Mammalian/cytology;Fibroblasts/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;NIH 3T3 Cells;RNA-Binding Proteins;Transcription, Genetic;Tumor Suppressor Proteins/ metabolism;AGO2, argonaute;ATG12, autophagy-related 12;ATG14, autophagy-related 14;ATG5, autophagy-related 5;Ant-Mir125a;Ant-Mir351;BECN1, Beclin 1;CNT-Ant, control antagomir;CQ, chloroquine;DGCR8, DiGeorge syndrome critical region gene 8;EWS, Ewing's Sarcoma;Ewsr1;EWSR1, EWS RNA-binding protein 1/Ewing Sarcoma Break Point Region 1;Ewsr1+/+;Ewsr1 homozygous knockout;Ewsr1 wild type;ewsr1-/-;LAMP, lysosomal-associated membrane protein;MAP1LC3/LC3;MEF, mouse embryonic fibroblast;Mir125a;Mir125a-specific antagomir;Mir351;Mir351-specific antagomir;Pep.A, pepstatin A;RISC, catalytic component 2;RNA-seq, whole transcriptome sequencing;SQSTM1, sequestosome 1;Uvrag;UVRAG, UV radiation-resistance associated;autophagy;miRNA, microRNA;microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3;pri-miRNA, primary transcript miRNA;siRNA, small interfering RNA
Modulation of autophagy by miRNAs	Y. Kim, et al.	2015	26129673	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) can regulate the expression of genes that are involved in multiple cellular pathways. However, their targets and mechanism of action associated with the autophagy pathway are not fully investigated yet. EWSR1 (EWS RNA-Binding Protein 1/Ewing Sarcoma Break Point Region 1) gene encodes a RNA/DNA binding protein that is ubiquitously expressed and plays roles in numerous cellular processes. Recently, our group has shown that EWSR1 deficiency leads to developmental failure and accelerated senescence via processing of miRNAs, but its role in the regulation of autophagy remains elusive. In this context, we further investigated and found that EWSR1 deficiency triggers the activation of the DROSHA-mediated microprocessor complex and increases the levels of miR125a and miR351, which directly target Uvrag. Interestingly, the miR125a- and miR351-targeted reduction of Uvrag led to the inhibition of autophagy in both ewsr1 knockout (KO) MEFs and ewsr1 KO mice. In summary, our study demonstrates that EWSR1 is associated with the posttranscriptional regulation of Uvrag via miRNA processing. The regulation of autophagy pathway in miRNAs-Uvrag-dependent manner provides a novel mechanism of EWSR1 deficiency-related cellular dysfunction.	Animals;Autophagy;Calmodulin-Binding Proteins/ deficiency;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Tumor Suppressor Proteins/ metabolism
Posttranscriptional Regulation of the Inflammatory Marker C-Reactive Protein by the RNA-Binding Protein HuR and MicroRNA 637	Y. Kim, et al.	2015	26438598	C-reactive protein (CRP), an acute-phase plasma protein, is a major component of inflammatory reactions functioning as a mediator of innate immunity. It has been widely used as a validated clinical biomarker of the inflammatory state in trauma, infection, and age-associated chronic diseases, including cancer and cardiovascular disease (CVD). Despite this, the molecular mechanisms that regulate CRP expression are not well understood. Given that the CRP 3' untranslated region (UTR) is long and AU rich, we hypothesized that CRP may be regulated posttranscriptionally by RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) and by microRNAs. Here, we found that the RBP HuR bound directly to the CRP 3' UTR and affected CRP mRNA levels. Through this interaction, HuR selectively increased CRP mRNA stability and promoted CRP translation. Interestingly, treatment with the age-associated inflammatory cytokine interleukin-6 (IL-6) increased binding of HuR to CRP mRNA, and conversely, HuR was required for IL-6-mediated upregulation of CRP expression. In addition, we identified microRNA 637 (miR-637) as a microRNA that potently inhibited CRP expression in competition with HuR. Taken together, we have uncovered an important posttranscriptional mechanism that modulates the expression of the inflammatory marker CRP, which may be utilized in the development of treatments for inflammatory processes that cause CVD and age-related diseases.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Biomarkers/blood/metabolism;C-Reactive Protein/ genetics/metabolism;Cell Line, Tumor;ELAV-Like Protein 1/blood/genetics/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;HeLa Cells;Hep G2 Cells;Humans;Inflammation/genetics/immunology;Interleukin-6/biosynthesis/genetics;MicroRNAs/blood/ genetics;RNA Interference;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional/ genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics/ metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering;RNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/metabolism
miR-486-5p induces replicative senescence of human adipose tissue-derived mesenchymal stem cells and its expression is controlled by high glucose	Y. J. Kim, et al.	2012	21988232	The reduction of adult stem cell self-renewal can be an important mechanism of aging. MicroRNAs have been reported to be involved in aging processes. Through a microarray approach, we have identified miR-486-5p, the expression of which is progressively expressed in human adipose tissue-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hAT-MSCs) with aging. Overexpression of miR-486-5p induces a premature senescence-like phenotype and inhibits proliferation of hAT-MSCs and inhibits adipogenic and osteogenic differentiation, whereas inhibition of miR-486-5p has the opposite effects. miR-486-5p regulates the expression of silent information regulator 1 (SIRT1), a major regulator of longevity and metabolic disorders. Decrease of SIRT1 deacetylase activity in hAT-MSCs is correlated with their passage number. miR-486-5p inhibits SIRT1 expression through a miR-486-5p binding site within the 3'-untranslated region of SIRT1. Overexpression of miR-486-5p inhibits SIRT1 deacetylase activity in hAT-MSCs, and transfection of miR-486-5p inhibitor shows the opposite effect. Downregulation of SIRT1 in hAT-MSCs induces senescence and inhibits cell proliferation. Exposure to high glucose increases miR-486-5p expression and inhibits SIRT1 expression in hAT-MSCs. Our data pinpoint miR-486-5p as an endogenous inhibitor of SIRT1 that promotes hAT-MSCs senescence and is potentially applicable to therapeutic manipulation of hAT-MSCs dysfunction in metabolic disorders.	3' Untranslated Regions;Abdominal Fat/ cytology;Cell Aging;Cells, Cultured;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Glucose/ physiology;Humans;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/metabolism/ physiology;MicroRNAs;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/ genetics/metabolism;Sirtuin 1/genetics/metabolism;beta-Galactosidase/metabolism
Rhythmic oscillations of the microRNA miR-96-5p play a neuroprotective role by indirectly regulating glutathione levels	C. Kinoshita, et al.	2014	24804999	Glutathione (GSH) is a key antioxidant that plays an important neuroprotective role in the brain. Decreased GSH levels are associated with neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. Here we show that a diurnal fluctuation of GSH levels is correlated with neuroprotective activity against oxidative stress in dopaminergic cells. In addition, we found that the cysteine transporter excitatory amino acid carrier 1 (EAAC1), which is involved in neuronal GSH synthesis, is negatively regulated by the microRNA miR-96-5p, which exhibits a diurnal rhythm. Blocking miR-96-5p by intracerebroventricular administration of an inhibitor increased the level of EAAC1 as well as that of GSH and had a neuroprotective effect against oxidative stress in the mouse substantia nigra. Our results suggest that the diurnal rhythm of miR-96-5p may play a role in neuroprotection by regulating neuronal GSH levels via EAAC1.	Animals;Antioxidants/ metabolism;Brain/pathology;Cell Line;Circadian Rhythm;Dopaminergic Neurons/metabolism;Excitatory Amino Acid Transporter 3/biosynthesis/ genetics;Glutathione/biosynthesis/ metabolism;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Male;Mice;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics;Neurodegenerative Diseases/genetics/metabolism;Neuroprotective Agents/ metabolism;Oxidative Stress;Substantia Nigra/metabolism
MicroRNA-16 mediates the regulation of a senescence-apoptosis switch in cutaneous T-cell and other non-Hodgkin lymphomas	A. Kitadate, et al.	2016	26640145	Multiple sequential genetic and epigenetic alterations underlie cancer development and progression. Overcoming cellular senescence is an early step in cancer pathogenesis. Here, we demonstrate that a noncoding regulatory RNA, microRNA-16 (miR-16), has the potential to induce cellular senescence. First, we examined the expression of miR-16 in primary cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) and other non-Hodgkin T/natural killer (NK)-cell lymphomas and found that miR-16 was downregulated than that in the corresponding normal cells. Notably, miR-16 expression was reduced as the primary CTCL progressed from the early stage to the advanced stage. Next, we transduced CTCL cells with miR-16 to examine whether this miRNA exhibited tumor-suppressive effects in CTCL cells. In CTCL cells expressing wild-type p53, forced expression of miR-16 enhanced p21 expression via downregulation of the polycomb group protein Bmi1, thereby inducing cellular senescence. Alternatively, in CTCL cells lacking functional p53, miR-16 induced compensatory apoptosis. The miR-16 transfection significantly decreased senescent cells and increased apoptotic cells in p21-knockdown CTCL cells expressing wild-type p53, suggesting that the presence or absence of p21 may be the most important condition in the senescence-apoptosis switch in CTCL lymphomagenesis. Furthermore, we found that the histone deacetylase inhibitor suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA) restored the expression of miR-16 and its essential targets, induced senescence in CTCL cells expressing wild-type p53 and promoted apoptosis in cells with nonfunctional p53. Moreover, we found that other T/NK-cell lymphoma cell lines showed similar tumor-suppressive effects in response to miR-16 and SAHA and that these effects were dependent on p53 status. These results suggested that epigenetic silencing of miR-16 may be a key step during lymphoma development. Elucidation of the essential targets of miR-16 and SAHA provides a basis for the clinical application of SAHA in the treatment of CTCL and other non-Hodgkin T/NK-cell lymphomas.	
Estrogen Regulation of MicroRNA Expression	C. M. Klinge	2009	19881910	Women outlive men, but life expectancy is not influenced by hormone replacement (estrogen + progestin) therapy. Estrogens appear to protect brain, cardiovascular tissues, and bone from aging. Estrogens regulate genes directly through binding to estrogen receptors alpha and beta (ERalpha and ERbeta) that are ligand-activated transcription factors and indirectly by activating plasma membrane-associated ER which, in turns, activates intracellular signaling cascades leading to altered gene expression. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short (19-25 nucleotides), naturally-occurring, non-coding RNA molecules that base-pair with the 3' untranslated region of target mRNAs. This interaction either blocks translation of the mRNA or targets the mRNA transcript to be degraded. The human genome contains ~ 700-1,200 miRNAs. Aberrant patterns of miRNA expression are implicated in human diseases including breast cancer. Recent studies have identified miRNAs regulated by estrogens in human breast cancer cells, human endometrial stromal and myometrial smooth muscle cells, rat mammary gland, and mouse uterus. The decline of estradiol levels in postmenopausal women has been implicated in various age-associated disorders. The role of estrogen-regulated miRNA expression, the target genes of these miRNAs, and the role of miRNAs in aging has yet to be explored.	MicroRNA;estrogen;estrogen receptor.;miRNA
CNR1 variation is associated with the age at onset in Huntington disease	E. Kloster, et al.	2013	23747361	Huntington disease (HD) is caused by the expansion of a CAG repeat within exon 1 of the HTT gene. Although the variation in age at onset (AO) is partly explained by the length of the expanded repeat blocks, the unexplained variation in AO is highly heritable, emphasizing the role of modifier genes on disease expression. Since down-regulation of type 1 cannabinoid (CB1) receptors is a key pathogenic event in HD, it has been suggested that activation of these receptors in patients may attenuate disease progression. In order to evaluate whether variations in the cannabinoid receptor 1 (CNR1) gene encoding the CB1 receptor protein have modifying effects on the AO of HD, we performed an association study between CNR1 polymorphisms and AO in HD patients. A (AAT)n repeat and a total of nine single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the CNR1 gene were selected for genotyping in a cohort of 473 German HD patients recruited in the Huntington Center NRW in Bochum. The AO was significantly associated with the longest alleles (>/=17 AAT) of the (AAT)n repeat polymorphism downstream of the CNR1 gene (p = 0.007) as well as with one SNP in the 3'UTR of CNR1 (rs4707436, p = 0.05). Interestingly, the allelic variation of rs4707436 affects different microRNA (miRNA) binding sites which could alter gene regulation and consequently influence protein expression. These findings support the idea that CNR1 variation may have modifying effects on the AO in HD.	Age of Onset;Female;Genetic Variation;Genotype;Humans;Huntington Disease/ genetics;Linkage Disequilibrium;Male;Polymorphism, Genetic;Receptor, Cannabinoid, CB1/ genetics;Trinucleotide Repeat Expansion;Age at onset;Cnr1;Huntington disease;Modifier genes;miRNAs
CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein delta/miR135a/thrombospondin 1 axis mediates PGE2-induced angiogenesis in Alzheimer's disease	C. Y. Ko, et al.	2015	25554493	In Alzheimer's disease (AD), large populations of endothelial cells undergo angiogenesis due to brain hypoxia and inflammation. Substantial evidence from epidemiologic, pathologic, and clinical reports suggests that vascular factors are critical for the pathogenesis of AD. However, the precise mechanistic correlation between inflammation and angiogenesis in AD has not been well elucidated. Prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), a key factor of the inflammatory response, has been known to promote angiogenesis. In this study, we demonstrated that PGE2 acts through EP4 receptor and protein kinase A to modulate CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein delta (CEBPD) abundance in astrocytes. Attenuated vessel formation was observed in the brains of AppTg/Cebpd(-/-) mice. We showed that miR135a was responsive to the induction of CEBPD and further negatively regulated thrombospondin 1 (THBS1) transcription by directly targeting its 3'-untranslated region (3'UTR) in astrocytes. Furthermore, conditioned media from astrocytes expressing miR135a promoted Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) tube-like formation, which correlated with the effects of PGE2 on angiogenesis. Our results indicated that CEBPD contributes to the repression of THBS1 transcription by activating the expression of miR135a in astrocytes following PGE2 treatment. We provided new evidence that astrocytic CEBPD increases angiogenesis during AD pathogenesis. This discovery supports the negative influence of CEBPD activation in astrocytes with respect to AD pathogenesis and implies that the CEBPD/miR135a/THBS1 axis could be a therapeutic target of AD.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/ pathology;Animals;Astrocytes/metabolism/pathology;CCAAT-Enhancer-Binding Protein-delta/ physiology;Cells, Cultured;Dinoprostone/ physiology;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Molecular Targeted Therapy;Neovascularization, Pathologic/ genetics/ pathology;Thrombospondin 1/ physiology;Alzheimer's disease;Angiogenesis;Cebpd;Pge2;miRNA
Expansion of intronic GGCCTG hexanucleotide repeat in NOP56 causes SCA36, a type of spinocerebellar ataxia accompanied by motor neuron involvement	H. Kobayashi, et al.	2011	21683323	Autosomal-dominant spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs) are a heterogeneous group of neurodegenerative disorders. In this study, we performed genetic analysis of a unique form of SCA (SCA36) that is accompanied by motor neuron involvement. Genome-wide linkage analysis and subsequent fine mapping for three unrelated Japanese families in a cohort of SCA cases, in whom molecular diagnosis had never been performed, mapped the disease locus to the region of a 1.8 Mb stretch (LOD score of 4.60) on 20p13 (D20S906-D20S193) harboring 37 genes with definitive open reading frames. We sequenced 33 of these and observed a large expansion of an intronic GGCCTG hexanucleotide repeat in NOP56 and an unregistered missense variant (Phe265Leu) in C20orf194, but we found no mutations in PDYN and TGM6. The expansion showed complete segregation with the SCA phenotype in family studies, whereas Phe265Leu in C20orf194 did not. Screening of the expansions in the SCA cohort cases revealed four additional occurrences, but none were revealed in the cohort of 27 Alzheimer disease cases, 154 amyotrophic lateral sclerosis cases, or 300 controls. In total, nine unrelated cases were found in 251 cohort SCA patients (3.6%). A founder haplotype was confirmed in these cases. RNA foci formation was detected in lymphoblastoid cells from affected subjects by fluorescence in situ hybridization. Double staining and gel-shift assay showed that (GGCCUG)n binds the RNA-binding protein SRSF2 but that (CUG)(6) does not. In addition, transcription of MIR1292, a neighboring miRNA, was significantly decreased in lymphoblastoid cells of SCA patients. Our finding suggests that SCA36 is caused by hexanucleotide repeat expansions through RNA gain of function.	Adult;Age of Onset;Aged;Alzheimer Disease/genetics;Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/genetics;Cohort Studies;Enkephalins/genetics/metabolism;Female;Haplotypes;Humans;In Situ Hybridization, Fluorescence;Introns/ genetics;Lod Score;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;Motor Neurons/ pathology;Mutation, Missense;Nuclear Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Pedigree;Protein Precursors/genetics/metabolism;Spinocerebellar Ataxias/classification/ genetics/pathology
microRNAs in CNS disorders	J. Kocerha, et al.	2009	19536656	In recent years, there has been a shift in the conventional paradigms for transcriptional and translational regulation as extensive sequencing efforts have yielded new insights into the landscape of the human genome and transcriptome. Hundreds of non-coding regulatory RNA molecules called microRNAs (miRNAs) have been identified in the mammalian central nervous system (CNS) and are reported to mediate pivotal roles in many aspects of neuronal functions. Disruption of miRNA-based post-transcriptional regulation has been implicated in a range of CNS disorders as one miRNA is predicted to impact the expression of numerous downstream mRNA targets. The intricate molecular networks mediated by an miRNA form a robust mechanism for rapid and potent responses to cellular events throughout the development of the human brain. Recent studies have identified a molecular and ultimately pathogenic role for a subset of miRNAs in Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia, including the characterization of their downstream CNS mRNA targets, such as beta-secretase (BACE1) and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII). Here, we present an overview of the current progress in miRNA research related to CNS disorders and also highlight the utility of LNA (locked nucleic acid)-modified oligonucleotides in the detection and modulation of miRNA activity.	Animals;Central Nervous System/anatomy & histology/physiology;Central Nervous System Diseases/ genetics/pathology/physiopathology;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Silencing;Genetic Variation;Genome, Human;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Molecular Structure;Nucleic Acids/chemistry/metabolism
Altered microRNA expression in frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP-43 pathology caused by progranulin mutations	J. Kocerha, et al.	2011	22032330	BACKGROUND: Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that can be triggered through genetic or sporadic mechanisms. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have become a major therapeutic focus as their pervasive expression and powerful regulatory roles in disease pathogenesis become increasingly apparent. Here we examine the role of miRNAs in FTLD patients with TAR DNA-binding protein 43 pathology (FTLD-TDP) caused by genetic mutations in the progranulin (PGRN) gene. RESULTS: Using miRNA array profiling, we identified the 20 miRNAs that showed greatest evidence (unadjusted P < 0.05) of dysregulation in frontal cortex of eight FTLD-TDP patients carrying PGRN mutations when compared to 32 FTLD-TDP patients with no apparent genetic abnormalities. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) analyses provided technical validation of the differential expression for 9 of the 20 miRNAs in frontal cortex. Additional qRT-PCR analyses showed that 5 out of 9 miRNAs (miR-922, miR-516a-3p, miR-571, miR-548b-5p, and miR-548c-5p) were also significantly dysregulated (unadjusted P < 0.05) in cerebellar tissue samples of PGRN mutation carriers, consistent with a systemic reduction in PGRN levels. We developed a list of gene targets for the 5 candidate miRNAs and found 18 genes dysregulated in a reported FTLD mRNA study to exhibit anti-correlated miRNA-mRNA patterns in affected cortex and cerebellar tissue. Among the targets is brain-specific angiogenesis inhibitor 3, which was recently identified as an important player in synapse biology. CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that miRNAs may contribute to the pathogenesis of FTLD-TDP caused by PGRN mutations and provides new insight into potential future therapeutic options.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Cerebellum/metabolism/pathology;DNA-Binding Proteins/ metabolism;Female;Frontal Lobe/metabolism/pathology;Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration/ genetics/pathology;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins/ genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Mutation;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Protein Precursors/genetics
microRNA-128a dysregulation in transgenic Huntington's disease monkeys	J. Kocerha, et al.	2014	24929669	BACKGROUND: Huntington's Disease (HD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder with a single causal mutation in the Huntingtin (HTT) gene. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have recently been implicated as epigenetic regulators of neurological disorders, however, their role in HD pathogenesis is not well defined. Here we study transgenic HD monkeys (HD monkeys) to examine miRNA dysregulation in a primate model of the disease. RESULTS: In this report, 11 miRNAs were found to be significantly associated (P value < 0.05) with HD in the frontal cortex of the HD monkeys. We further focused on one of those candidates, miR-128a, due to the corresponding disruption in humans and mice with HD as well as its intriguing lists of gene targets. miR-128a was downregulated in our HD monkey model by the time of birth. We then confirmed that miR-128a was also downregulated in the brains of pre-symptomatic and post-symptomatic HD patients. Additionally, our studies confirmed a panel of canonical HD signaling genes regulated by miR-128a, including HTT and Huntingtin Interaction Protein 1 (HIP1). CONCLUSION: Our studies found that miR-128a may play a critical role in HD and could be a viable candidate as a therapeutic or biomarker of the disease.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Animals;Animals, Genetically Modified;Caspase 3/metabolism;Enzyme Activation;Frontal Lobe/enzymology/pathology;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Genotyping Techniques;Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein/metabolism;HEK293 Cells;Haplorhini/ genetics;Humans;Huntington Disease/ genetics;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/chemistry/metabolism;Protein Structure, Quaternary;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction/genetics
Circulating microRNA Signatures in Patients With Idiopathic and Postmenopausal Osteoporosis and Fragility Fractures	R. Kocijan, et al.	2016	27552543	CONTEXT: Established bone turnover markers do not reflect fracture risk in idiopathic male and premenopausal osteoporosis and the role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in these patients is currently unclear. miRNAs are a class of small non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression and bone tissue homeostasis. They are considered a new class of endocrine regulators with promising potential as biomarkers. OBJECTIVE: Evaluation of circulating miRNA signatures in male and female subjects with idiopathic and postmenopausal osteoporotic low-traumatic fractures. DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS: This was a case-control study of cross-sectional design of 36 patients with prevalent low-traumatic fractures and 39 control subjects Main Outcome Measures: One hundred eighty-seven miRNAs were quantified in serum by qPCR, compared between groups and correlated with established bone turnover markers. RESULTS: Significant differences in serum levels of circulating miRNAs were identified in all three subgroups (46 in premenopausal, 52 in postmenopausal, 55 in male). A set of 19 miRNAs was consistently regulated in all three subgroups. Eight miRNAs [miR-152-3p, miR-30e-5p, miR-140-5p, miR-324-3p, miR-19b-3p, miR-335-5p, miR-19a-3p, miR-550a-3p] were excellent discriminators of patients with low-traumatic fractures, regardless of age and sex, with area under the curve values > 0.9. The 11 remaining miRNAs showed area under the curve values between 0.81 and 0.89. Correlation analysis identified significant correlations between miR-29b-3p and P1NP, and miR-365-5p and iPTH, TRAP5b, P1NP and Osteocalcin, as well as BMDL1-L4 and miR-19b-3p, miR-324-3p, miR-532-5p, and miR-93-5p. CONCLUSIONS: Specific serum miRNA profiles are strongly related to bone pathologies. Therefore miRNAs might be directly linked to bone tissue homeostasis. In particular, miR-29b-3p has previously been reported as regulator of osteogenic differentiation and could serve as a novel marker of bone turnover in osteoporotic patients as a member of a miRNA signature.	Absorptiometry, Photon;Adult;Aged;Biomarkers/blood;Case-Control Studies;Cross-Sectional Studies;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood;Middle Aged;Osteoporosis/ blood/diagnostic imaging;Osteoporosis, Postmenopausal/blood/diagnostic imaging;Osteoporotic Fractures/ blood/diagnostic imaging;Postmenopause/ blood;Premenopause/ blood
Leptin is involved in age-dependent changes in response to systemic inflammation in the rat	S. Koenig, et al.	2014	24513873	Obesity contributes to a state of subclinical peripheral and central inflammation and is often associated with aging. Here we investigated the source and contribution of adipose tissue derived cytokines and the cytokine-like hormone leptin to age-related changes in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced brain-controlled sickness-responses. Old (24 months) and young (2 months) rats were challenged with LPS or saline alone or in combination with a neutralizing leptin antiserum (LAS) or control serum. Changes in the sickness-response were monitored by biotelemetry. Additionally, ex vivo fat-explants from young and old rats were stimulated with LPS or saline and culture medium collected and analyzed by cytokine-specific bioassays/ELISAs. We found enhanced duration/degree of the sickness-symptoms, including delayed but prolonged fever in old rats. This response was accompanied by increased plasma-levels of interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-1ra and exaggerated expression of inflammatory markers in brain and liver analyzed by RT-PCR including inhibitor kappaBalpha, microsomal prostaglandin synthase and cyclooxygenase 2 (brain). Moreover, for the first time, we were able to show prolonged elevated plasma leptin-levels in LPS-treated old animals. Treatment with LAS in young rats tended to attenuate the early- and in old rats the prolonged febrile response. Fat-explants exhibited unchanged IL-6 but reduced IL-1ra and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha release from adipose tissue of aged compared to young animals. In addition, we found increased expression of the endogenous immune regulator microRNA146a in aged animals suggesting a role for these mediators in counteracting brain inflammation. Overall, our results indicate a role of adipose tissue and leptin in "aging-related-inflammation" and age-dependent modifications of febrile-responses.	Adipose Tissue/metabolism;Aging/ metabolism;Animals;Cyclooxygenase 2/metabolism;Cytokines/ blood;Hypothalamus/metabolism;Inflammation/blood/ metabolism;Leptin/ physiology;Lipopolysaccharides/toxicity;Liver/metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Oxidative Stress;Rats;Rats, Wistar
microRNA-34a promotes DNA damage and mitotic catastrophe	A. V. Kofman, et al.	2013	24091633	Efficient and error-free DNA repair is critical for safeguarding genome integrity, yet it is also linked to radio- and chemoresistance of malignant tumors. miR-34a, a potent tumor suppressor, influences a large set of p53-regulated genes and contributes to p53-mediated apoptosis. However, the effects of miR-34a on the processes of DNA damage and repair are not entirely understood. We explored tet-inducible miR-34a-expressing human p53 wild-type and R273H p53 mutant GBM cell lines, and found that miR-34a influences the broad spectrum of 53BP1-mediated DNA damage response. It escalates both post-irradiation and endogenous DNA damage, abrogates radiation-induced G 2/M arrest and drastically increases the number of irradiated cells undergoing mitotic catastrophe. Furthermore, miR-34a downregulates 53BP1 and inhibits its recruitment to the sites of DNA double-strand breaks. We conclude that whereas miR-34a counteracts DNA repair, it also contributes to the p53-independent elimination of distressed cells, thus preventing the rise of genomic instability in tumor cell populations. These properties of miR-34a can potentially be exploited for DNA damage-effecting therapies of malignancies.	Apoptosis;Cell Line, Tumor;DNA Damage;Down-Regulation;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Mitosis;Mutation;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/metabolism;53bp1;brain tumors;microRNA-34a;mitotic catastrophe
The MicroRNA Machinery Regulates Fasting-Induced Changes in Gene Expression and Longevity in Caenorhabditis elegans	A. Kogure, et al.	2017	28507100	Intermittent fasting (IF) is a dietary restriction regimen that extends the lifespans of Caenorhabditis elegans and mammals by inducing changes in gene expression. However, how IF induces these changes and promotes longevity remains unclear. One proposed mechanism involves gene regulation by microRNAs (miRNAs), small non-coding RNAs (approximately 22 nucleotides) that repress gene expression and whose expression can be altered by fasting. To test this proposition, we examined the role of the miRNA machinery in fasting-induced transcriptional changes and longevity in C. elegans We revealed that fasting up-regulated the expression of miRNA-induced silencing complex (miRISC) components, including Argonaute and GW182, and of the miRNA-processing enzyme DRSH-1 (the ortholog of the Drosophila Drosha enzyme). Our lifespan measurements demonstrated that IF-induced longevity was suppressed by knockout or knockdown of miRISC components and was completely inhibited by drsh-1 ablation. Remarkably, drsh-1 ablation inhibited the fasting-induced changes in the expression of the target genes of DAF-16, the insulin/IGF-1 signaling effector in C. elegans Fasting-induced transcriptome alterations were substantially and modestly suppressed in the drsh-1 null mutant and the null mutant of ain-1, a gene encoding GW182, respectively. Moreover, miRNA array analyses revealed that the expression levels of numerous miRNAs changed after 2 days of fasting. These results indicate that components of the miRNA machinery, especially the miRNA-processing enzyme DRSH-1, play an important role in mediating IF-induced longevity via the regulation of fasting-induced changes in gene expression.	Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans);aging;microRNA (miRNA);microRNA mechanism;post-transcriptional regulation
[Microrna, evolution and cancer]	N. N. Kolesnikov, et al.	2013	23795457	MicroRNAs are known as a posttranscriptional negative regulators of gene expression by binding to the 3'UTP of target mRNAs in cytoplasm. More than 1600 microRNAs expressed in human cells, are involved in the regulation of embryogenesis, differentiation, cell cycle, apoptosis, senescence, thus determining cell fate. Up to 60 % of protein coding genes are under their control. Various sets of microRNAs found in different human tissues under normal and pathological conditions, including cancer, suggest that miRNAs are involved in most cellular pathways. To date, there is no doubt that regulatory potential of the genome is largely determined by miRNAs. In our study, we performed a comparative phylogenetic analysis of the origin and evolution of the total set of 1048 miRNAs in the human genome and investigated the role of certain miRNAs in carcinogenesis of thyroid and mammary glands, as potential diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers of malignancy. Analysis of phylogenetic distribution of miRNAs in the human genome has shown four peaks of appearance of new miRNA genes in the evolution from Methazoa to H. sapiens. The highest amount of new miRNA genes appeared after divergence of H. s. from common ancestor with P. t. Expansion of transposable elements in genome was accompanied by the origin of new miRNA genes on the basis of their sequences. More than 14 % from 1600 miRNAs of human genome originated from mobile elements and still remain. Profiles of expression of 5 miRNAs, pertaining to oncomicroRNAs - miR-21, -221, -222, -155 and -205 - allow distinguishing ductal invasive carcinoma of mammary gland and thyroid papillary carcinoma. The data obtained suggest different ways and roles of participation of the same miRNAs in carcinogenesis of thyroid and mammary glands. So, these miRNAs and profiles of their expression might be used in the diagnosis and prognosis of cancer.	Animals;Biomarkers, Tumor;DNA Transposable Elements/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neoplasms/ genetics;Phylogeny
Cholinergic Regulation of hnRNPA2/B1 Translation by M1 Muscarinic Receptors	B. Kolisnyk, et al.	2016	27277805	UNLABELLED: Cholinergic vulnerability, characterized by loss of acetylcholine (ACh), is one of the hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Previous work has suggested that decreased ACh activity in AD may contribute to pathological changes through global alterations in alternative splicing. This occurs, at least partially, via the regulation of the expression of a critical protein family in RNA processing, heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP) A/B proteins. These proteins regulate several steps of RNA metabolism, including alternative splicing, RNA trafficking, miRNA export, and gene expression, providing multilevel surveillance in RNA functions. To investigate the mechanism by which cholinergic tone regulates hnRNPA2/B1 expression, we used a combination of genetic mouse models and in vivo and in vitro techniques. Decreasing cholinergic tone reduced levels of hnRNPA2/B1, whereas increasing cholinergic signaling in vivo increased expression of hnRNPA2/B1. This effect was not due to decreased hnRNPA2/B1 mRNA expression, increased aggregation, or degradation of the protein, but rather to decreased mRNA translation by nonsense-mediated decay regulation of translation. Cell culture and knock-out mice experiments demonstrated that M1 muscarinic signaling is critical for cholinergic control of hnRNPA2/B1 protein levels. Our experiments suggest an intricate regulation of hnRNPA2/B1 levels by cholinergic activity that interferes with alternative splicing in targeted neurons mimicking deficits found in AD. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: In Alzheimer's disease, degeneration of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons is an early event. These neurons communicate with target cells and regulate their long-term activity by poorly understood mechanisms. Recently, the splicing factor hnRNPA2/B, which is decreased in Alzheimer's disease, was implicated as a potential mediator of long-term cholinergic regulation. Here, we demonstrate a mechanism by which cholinergic signaling controls the translation of hnRNPA2/B1 mRNA by activation of M1 muscarinic type receptors. Loss of cholinergic activity can have profound effects in target cells by modulating hnRNPA2/B1 levels.	Animals;Carbachol/pharmacology;Cells, Cultured;Choline O-Acetyltransferase/genetics/metabolism;Cholinergic Agents/pharmacology;Cholinergic Agonists/ pharmacology;Embryo, Mammalian;Gene Expression Regulation/ drug effects/genetics;Heterogeneous-Nuclear Ribonucleoprotein Group A-B/ metabolism;Hippocampus/cytology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;Neurons/drug effects/ metabolism;Nuclear Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Protein Biosynthesis/ drug effects;Receptor, Muscarinic M1/ metabolism;Signal Transduction/drug effects/genetics;Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;Ubiquitination/drug effects/genetics;Vesicular Acetylcholine Transport Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Alzheimer's disease;VAChT;acetylcholine;alternative splicing;hippocampus
Blockade of senescence-associated microRNA-195 in aged skeletal muscle cells facilitates reprogramming to produce induced pluripotent stem cells	H. Kondo, et al.	2016	26637971	The low reprogramming efficiency in cells from elderly patients is a challenge that must be overcome. Recently, it has been reported that senescence-associated microRNA (miR)-195 targets Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) to advance cellular senescence. Thus, we hypothesized that a blockade of miR-195 expression could improve reprogramming efficiency in old skeletal myoblasts (SkMs). We found that miR-195 expression was significantly higher in old SkMs (24 months) isolated from C57BL/6 mice as compared to young SkMs (2 months, 2.3-fold). Expression of SIRT1 and telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) was downregulated in old SkMs, and transduction of old SkMs with lentiviral miR-195 inhibitor significantly restored their expression. Furthermore, quantitative in situ hybridization analysis demonstrated significant telomere elongation in old SkMs transduced with anti-miR-195 (1.7-fold increase). It is important to note that blocking miR-195 expression markedly increased the reprogramming efficiency of old SkMs as compared to scramble (2.2-fold increase). Transduction of anti-miR-195 did not alter karyotype or pluripotency marker expression. Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from old SkMs transduced with anti-miR-195 successfully formed embryoid bodies that spontaneously differentiated into three germ layers, indicating that deletion of miR-195 does not affect pluripotency in transformed SkMs. In conclusion, this study provided novel evidence that the blockade of age-induced miR-195 is a promising approach for efficient iPSC generation from aging donor subjects, which has the potential for autologous transplantation of iPSCs in elderly patients.	Age Factors;Animals;Cell Aging;Cell Differentiation/ physiology;Cells, Cultured;Cellular Reprogramming/ genetics;Fibroblasts/ cytology;Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells/ metabolism;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Muscle Fibers, Skeletal/cytology/ metabolism;aging cell;microRNA;reprogramming;telomere length
MicroRNA expression analysis of adult-onset Drosophila Alzheimer's disease model	Y. Kong, et al.	2014	25274109	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common reason for dementia in elderly population. Its neuropathological features include senile plaques, neurofibril tangles and neuronal death. Scientists have established many AD animal models, including yeast, Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila melanogaster, mice, rats and non-human primates. Drosophila AD models are much more efficient for genetic manipulation and screening assay than mammals. microRNAs (miRNAs) are ~22nt small RNA molecules that fine-tune gene expression at posttranscriptional level. The dysregulation of miRNAs could participate in AD progression by influencing targets' expression and functions. However, miRNA expression profile of AD flies has not yet been investigated. Using the latest microParaflo miRNA microarray assay, we found that 17 miRNAs that were consistently dysregulated in adult-onset AD Drosophila brains: eight of which were upregulated (miR- 8, miR-13b, miR-277, miR-279, miR-981, miR-995, miR-998, miR-1017) and nine were downregulated (let-7, miR-1, miR-9a, miR-184, miR-193, miR-263b, miR-276a, miR-285, miR-289). KEGG pathway annotations using DIANA miRPath or targets predicted by Targetscan identified 7 pathways (Valine, leucine and isoleucine degradation; MAPK signaling pathway; Dorso-ventral axis formation; Propanoate metabolism; Sphingolipid metabolism; Lysine degradation; Jak- STAT signaling pathway) which might be influenced by these miRNAs. Integrative miRNA/mRNA regulatory network analysis revealed functional cluster with transaminase activity to be potentially regulated by miRNAs in AD. Taken together, our profiling assay identified miRNAs as markers for adult onset AD Drosophila. Dysregulation of miRNA profile may participate in AD pathogenesis by interrupting the metabolism of amino acids in the brain.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Animals, Genetically Modified;Association Learning;Brain/metabolism;Cell Line;Conditioning, Classical;Disease Models, Animal;Drosophila melanogaster;Electroshock;Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay;Female;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Microarray Analysis;Motor Activity;Olfactory Perception;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Transfection
The Role of miR-124 in Drosophila Alzheimer's Disease Model by Targeting Delta in Notch Signaling Pathway	Y. Kong, et al.	2015	26592243	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder which mainly affects elderly population. MicroRNAs (miRNA) are small RNA molecules that fine-tune gene expression at posttranscriptional level and exert important functions in AD. MicroRNA-124 (miR-124) is a kind of miRNA abundantly expressed in the central nervous system. It is highly conserved from Caenorhabditis elegans to humans. However, its function in AD is still elusive. In this study, we found miR-124 was significantly down-regulated in AD flies. miR-124 mutant flies showed impaired climbing ability and shortened lifespan. In contrast, miR-124 expression rescued locomotive defects of AD flies. Using microarray analysis to test gene expression profiles of miR-124 mutant flies, we found that Notch signaling pathway was potentially targeted by miR-124. Further experiments showed that miR-124 regulated Notch ligand Delta expression by acting on specific site of Delta 3`UTR. In addition, reduced Delta expression by RNA interference extended lifespan and ameliorated learning defects of AD Drosophila. Notch inhibitor DAPT could also alleviate AD phenotypes, which confirmed our findings. In conclusion, our study indicates that miR-124 plays neuroprotective roles in AD Drosophila by targeting Delta in Notch signaling pathway, which helps further our understanding of miRNAs in the molecular pathology of AD.	3' Untranslated Regions;Alzheimer Disease/genetics/metabolism/pathology/ therapy;Animals;Binding Sites;Conditioning, Operant/drug effects/physiology;Dipeptides/pharmacology;Disease Models, Animal;Drosophila melanogaster/drug effects/ genetics/metabolism;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation/ drug effects;Humans;Intracellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins/antagonists &;inhibitors/ genetics/metabolism;Locomotion/drug effects/genetics;Longevity/drug effects/genetics;Male;Membrane Proteins/antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Microarray Analysis;Protein Binding;RNA, Small Interfering/ genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction
Polymorphism of the OLR1 3'UTR potential microRNA binding site and risk of Alzheimer's disease: a meta-analysis	Y. Kong, et al.	2014	25501227	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that contributes to dementia in the elderly population. Genome-wide linkage analysis has identified chromosome 12p as the AD-susceptible region, which includes lectin-like oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor 1 (OLR1). The OLR1 +1073 C/T single-nucleotide polymorphism is located in the 3'-untranslated region of the gene and may influence the binding of regulatory microRNAs (miRNAs) and OLR1 protein homeostasis. A number of studies have reported an association between this variant and AD. However, the results are controversial. A meta-analysis of case-control studies examining the relationship between the OLR1 +1073 C/T single-nucleotide polymorphism and AD risk was performed. Five studies were selected that included 2419 cases and 2381 controls. The results revealed a significantly decreased AD risk in the recessive model (TT vs TC + CC: odds ratio (OR) = 0.79, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.65-0.96). The control group in one of the studies was in Hardy-Weinberg disequilibrium, so we performed additional meta-analysis excluding this study. The significance was much more pronounced in the recessive model (TT vs TC + CC: OR = 0.72, 95%CI = 0.62-0.85). Using miRanda and RNA hybrid methods, the polymorphic allele was shown to influence the binding of various miRNAs. Our results suggested that the +1073 C/T polymorphism decreased the risk of AD. The polymorphic allele was also predicted to affect the binding site of many miRNAs, which may explain the relationship between the +1073 C/T variant and AD.	3' Untranslated Regions;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics;Binding Sites;Case-Control Studies;Genetic Association Studies;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Humans;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Scavenger Receptors, Class E/chemistry/ genetics/metabolism
Soma influences GSC progeny differentiation via the cell adhesion-mediated steroid-let-7-Wingless signaling cascade that regulates chromatin dynamics	A. Konig and H. R. Shcherbata	2015	25661868	It is known that signaling from the germline stem cell niche is required to maintain germline stem cell identity in Drosophila. However, it is not clear whether the germline stem-cell daughters differentiate by default (because they are physically distant from the niche) or whether additional signaling is necessary to initiate the differentiation program. Previously, we showed that ecdysteroid signaling cell non-autonomously regulates early germline differentiation via its soma-specific co-activator and co-repressor, Taiman and Abrupt. Now, we demonstrate that this regulation is modulated by the miRNA let-7, which acts in a positive feedback loop to confer ecdysone signaling robustness via targeting its repressor, the transcription factor Abrupt. This feedback loop adjusts ecdysteroid signaling in response to some stressful alterations in the external and internal conditions, which include temperature stress and aging, but not nutritional deprivation. Upon let-7 deficit, escort cells fail to properly differentiate: their shape, division, and cell adhesive characteristics are perturbed. These cells have confused cellular identity and form columnar-like rather than squamous epithelium and fail to send protrusions in between differentiating germline cysts, affecting soma-germline communication. Particularly, levels of the homophilic cell adhesion protein Cadherin, which recruits Wg signaling transducer beta-catenin, are increased in mutant escort cells and, correspondingly, in the adjacent germline cells. Readjustment of heterotypic (soma-germline) cell adhesion modulates Wg signaling intensity in the germline, which in turn regulates histone modifications that promote expression of the genes necessary to trigger early germline differentiation. Thus, our data first show the intrinsic role for Wg signaling in the germline and support a model where the soma influences the tempo of germline differentiation in response to external conditions.	Abrupt;Cell fate;Differential cell adhesion;Differentiation niche;Drosophila;Ecdysone;Germline Stem cell;H2Bub1;Histone modifications;Oogenesis;Wingless signaling;miRNA let-7
MicroRNA-101 targets EZH2, MCL-1 and FOS to suppress proliferation, invasion and stem cell-like phenotype of aggressive endometrial cancer cells	Y. Konno, et al.	2014	25153722	MicroRNA-101 has been implicated as a tumor suppressor miRNA in human tumors. However, its potential functional impact and the underlying mechanisms in endometrial cancer progression have not been determined. Here, we report that in aggressive endometrial cancer cells, re-expression of microRNA-101 leads to inhibition of cell proliferation and induction of apoptosis and senescence. Ectopic overexpression of microRNA-101 attenuates the epithelial-mesenchymal transition-associated cancer cell migration and invasion, abrogates the sphere-forming capacity and enhances chemosensitivity to paclitaxel. Algorithm and microarray-based strategies identifies potential microRNA-101 targets. Among these, we validated EZH2, MCL-1 and FOS as direct targets of miR-101 and silencing of these genes mimics the tumor suppressive effects observed on promoting microRNA-101 function. Importantly, further results suggest an inverse correlation between low miR-101 and high EZH2, MCL-1 and FOS expression in EC specimens. We conclude that, as a crucial tumor suppressor, microRNA-101 suppresses cell proliferation, invasiveness and self-renewal in aggressive endometrial cancer cells via modulating multiple critical oncogenes. The microRNA-101-EZH2/MCL-1/FOS axis is a potential therapeutic target for endometrial cancer.	Cell Growth Processes/genetics;Cell Movement/genetics;Endometrial Neoplasms/ genetics/pathology;Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2 Protein;Female;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Myeloid Cell Leukemia Sequence 1 Protein/genetics/ metabolism;Neoplasm Invasiveness;Oncogene Proteins v-fos/genetics/ metabolism;Phenotype;Polycomb Repressive Complex 2/genetics/ metabolism
A screen identifies the oncogenic micro-RNA miR-378a-5p as a negative regulator of oncogene-induced senescence	S. M. Kooistra, et al.	2014	24651706	Oncogene-induced senescence (OIS) can occur in response to hyperactive oncogenic signals and is believed to be a fail-safe mechanism protecting against tumorigenesis. To identify new factors involved in OIS, we performed a screen for microRNAs that can overcome or inhibit OIS in human diploid fibroblasts. This screen led to the identification of miR-378a-5p and in addition several other miRNAs that have previously been shown to play a role in senescence. We show that ectopic expression of miR-378a-5p reduces the expression of several senescence markers, including p16(INK4A) and senescence-associated beta-galactosidase. Moreover, cells with ectopic expression of miR-378a-5p retain proliferative capacity even in the presence of an activated Braf oncogene. Finally, we identified several miR-378a-5p targets in diploid fibroblasts that might explain the mechanism by which the microRNA can delay OIS. We speculate that miR-378a-5p might positively influence tumor formation by delaying OIS, which is consistent with a known pro-oncogenic function of this microRNA.	Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Line;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p16/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Oncogenes;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism
Swimming attenuates d-galactose-induced brain aging via suppressing miR-34a-mediated autophagy impairment and abnormal mitochondrial dynamics	X. Kou, et al.	2017	28302704	microRNAs (miRNAs) have been reported to be involved in many neurodegenerative diseases. To explore the regulatory role of miR-34a in aging-related diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) during exercise intervention, we constructed a rat model with d-galactose (d-gal)-induced oxidative stress and cognitive impairment coupled with dysfunctional autophagy and abnormal mitochondrial dynamics, determined the mitigation of cognitive impairment of d-gal-induced aging rats during swimming intervention, and evaluated miR-34a-mediated functional status of autophagy and abnormal mitochondrial dynamics. Meanwhile, whether the upregulation of miR-34a can lead to dysfunctional autophagy and abnormal mitochondrial dynamics was confirmed in human SH-SY5Y cells with silenced miR-34a by the transfection of a miR-34a inhibitor. Results indicated that swimming intervention could significantly attenuate cognitive impairment, prevent the upregulation of miR-34a, mitigate the dysfunctional autophagy, and inhibit the increase of dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1) in d-gal-induced aging model rats. In contrast, the miR-34a inhibitor in cell model not only attenuated D-gal-induced the impairment of autophagy but also decreased the expression of DRP1 and mitofusin 2 (MFN2). Therefore, swimming training can delay brain aging of d-gal-induced aging rats through attenuating the impairment of miR-34a-mediated autophagy and abnormal mitochondrial dynamics, and miR-34a could be the novel therapeutic target for aging-related diseases such as AD.NEW & NOTEWORTHY In the present study, we have found that the upregulation of miR-34a is the hallmark of aging or aging-related diseases, which can result in dysfunctional autophagy and abnormal mitochondrial dynamics. In contrast, swimming intervention can delay the aging process by rescuing the impaired functional status of autophagy and abnormal mitochondrial dynamics via the suppression of miR-34a.	aging;autophagy;miR-34a;mitochondrial dynamics;swimming training
Ampelopsin attenuates brain aging of D-gal-induced rats through miR-34a-mediated SIRT1/mTOR signal pathway	X. Kou, et al.	2016	27780933	The underlying molecular mechanisms for aging-related neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) are not fully understood. Currently, growing evidences have revealed that microRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in aging and aging-related diseases. The up-regulation of miR-34a has been reported to be associated with aging-related diseases, and thus it should be a promising therapeutic target. Ampelopsin, also called dihydromyricetin (DHM), a natural flavonoid from Chinese herb Ampelopsis grossedentata, has been reported to possess multiple pharmacological functions including anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidative and anti-cancer functions. Meanwhile, it has also gained tremendous attention against neurodegenerative diseases as an anti-aging compound. In the present study, the model rats with D-gal-induced brain aging revealed an obvious expression of miR-34a; in contrast, it could be significantly suppressed upon DHM treatment. In addition, target genes associated with miR-34a in the presence of DHM treatment were also explored. DHM supplementation inhibited D-gal-induced apoptosis and rescued impaired autophagy of neurons in hippocampus tissue. Moreover, DHM activated autophagy through up-regulated SIRT1 and down-regulated mTOR signal pathways due to the down-regulated miR-34a. In conclusion, DHM can execute the prevention and treatment of D-gal-induced brain aging by miR-34a-mediated SIRT1-mTOR signal pathway.	Gerotarget;SIRT1-mTOR signal pathway;aging;ampelopsin;autophagy;miR-34a
MicroRNA-129-1 acts as tumour suppressor and induces cell cycle arrest of GBM cancer cells through targeting IGF2BP3 and MAPK1	F. Kouhkan, et al.	2016	26510428	BACKGROUND: MicroRNA-129-1 (miR-129-1) seems to behave as a tumour suppressor since its decreased expression is associated with different tumours such as glioblastoma multiforme (GBM). GBM is the most common form of brain tumours originating from glial cells. The impact of miR-129-1 downregulation on GBM pathogenesis has yet to be elucidated. METHODS: MiR-129-1 was overexpressed in GBM cells, and its effect on proliferation was investigated by cell cycle assay. MiR-129-1 predicted targets (CDK6, IGF1, HDAC2, IGF2BP3 and MAPK1) were also evaluated by western blot and luciferase assay. RESULTS: Restoration of miR-129-1 reduced cell proliferation and induced G1 accumulation, significantly. Several functional assays confirmed IGF2BP3, MAPK1 and CDK6 as targets of miR-129-1. Despite the fact that IGF1 expression can be suppressed by miR-129-1, through 3'-untranslated region complementary sequence, we could not find any association between IGF1 expression and GBM. MiR-129-1 expression inversely correlates with CDK6, IGF2BP3 and MAPK1 in primary clinical samples. CONCLUSION: This is the first study to propose miR129-1 as a negative regulator of IGF2BP3 and MAPK1 and also a cell cycle arrest inducer in GBM cells. Our data suggests miR-129-1 as a potential tumour suppressor and presents a rationale for the use of miR-129-1 as a novel strategy to improve treatment response in GBM.	Apoptosis/genetics;Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Brain Neoplasms/ genetics;Cell Cycle Checkpoints/ genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Computational Biology;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 6/genetics;Databases, Genetic;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Genes, Tumor Suppressor;Glioblastoma/ genetics;Humans;Insulin-Like Growth Factor I/genetics;MicroRNAs/chemistry/ genetics;Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase 1/chemistry/ genetics;Models, Biological;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/chemistry/genetics;RNA-Binding Proteins/chemistry/ genetics;Cancer: CNS;Cell biology;Gene therapy;MicroRNA;Neuro oncology
Association of aggression with a novel microRNA binding site polymorphism in the wolframin gene	R. Kovacs-Nagy, et al.	2013	23650218	Rare mutations in the WFS1 gene lead to Wolfram syndrome, a severe multisystem disorder with progressive neurodegeneration and diabetes mellitus causing life-threatening complications and premature death. Only a few association studies using small clinical samples tested the possible effects of common WFS1 gene variants on mood disorders and suicide, the non-clinical spectrum has not been studied yet. Self-report data on Aggression, Impulsiveness, Anxiety, and Depression were collected from a large (N = 801) non-psychiatric sample. Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were selected to provide an adequate coverage of the entire WFS1 gene, as well as to include putative microRNA binding site polymorphisms. Molecular analysis of the assumed microRNA binding site variant was performed by an in vitro reporter-gene assay of the cloned 3' untranslated region with coexpression of miR-668. Among the 17 WFS1 SNPs, only the rs1046322, a putative microRNA (miR-668) binding site polymorphism showed significant association with psychological dimensions after correction for multiple testing: those with the homozygous form of the minor allele reported higher aggression on the Buss-Perry Aggression Questionnaire (P = 0.0005). Functional effect of the same SNP was also demonstrated in a luciferase reporter system: the minor A allele showed lower repression compared to the major G allele, if co-expressed with miR-668. To our knowledge, this is the first report describing a microRNA binding site polymorphism of the WFS1 gene and its association with human aggression based on a large, non-clinical sample.	3' Untranslated Regions;Aggression;Base Sequence;DNA Primers;Genetic Markers;Homozygote;Humans;Membrane Proteins/ genetics;Phenotype;Polymerase Chain Reaction;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide
Epigenetic bystander-like effects of stroke in somatic organs	A. Kovalchuk, et al.	2012	22466454	Clinical evidence suggests that stroke may lead to damage of somatic organs. This communication of damage is well- established in the case of exposure to genotoxic agents is termed a bystander effect. Genotoxic stress-induced bystander effects are epigenetically mediated. Here we investigated whether stroke causes epigenetic bystander-like effects in the liver, kidney and heart. We found a significant increase in the levels of H3K3 acetylation and H3K4 trimethylation, as well as a decrease in the H3K9 trimethylation in the kidney tissue of stroked rats. Furthermore, here we for the first time show changes in the gene and microRNA expression profile in the kidney tissues of stroked rats, as compared to intact control animals. Interestingly, the observed changes were somewhat similar to those reported earlier in kidney injury, inflammation, and acute renal failure. Our data explain the recent epidemiological evidence for the increased incidence of acute kidney injury post-stroke and provide an important roadmap for the future analysis of the mechanisms and cellular repercussions of the stroke-induced bystander-like effects in distal somatic organs.	Acetylation;Animals;Bystander Effect/ genetics;DNA Methylation;DNA Modification Methylases/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Epigenesis, Genetic;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Histones/metabolism;Kidney/ metabolism;Liver/metabolism;Male;Methyl-CpG-Binding Protein 2/metabolism;Methylation;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Myocardium/metabolism;Rats;Rats, Long-Evans;Stroke/complications/ genetics/metabolism
Regulation of huntingtin gene expression by miRNA-137, -214, -148a, and their respective isomiRs	E. Kozlowska, et al.	2013	23965969	With the advent of deep sequencing technology, a variety of miRNA length and sequence variants, termed isomiRNAs (isomiRs), have been discovered. However, the functional roles of these commonly detected isomiRs remain unknown. In this paper, we demonstrated that miRNAs regulate the expression of the HTT gene, whose mutation leads to Huntington's disease (HD), a hereditary degenerative disorder. Specifically, we validated the interactions of canonical miRNAs, miR-137, miR-214, and miR-148a, with the HTT 3'UTR using a luciferase assay. Moreover, we applied synthetic miRNA mimics to examine whether a slight shifting of miRNA seed regions might alter the regulation of the HTT transcript. We also examined miR-137, miR-214, and miR-148a isomiRs and showed the activity of these isoforms on reporter constructs bearing appropriate sequences from the HTT 3'UTR. Hence, we demonstrated that certain 5'-end variants of miRNAs might be functional for the regulation of the same targets as canonical miRNAs.	Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Gene Expression;Genes, Reporter;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Huntingtin Protein;Huntington Disease/genetics/metabolism;Luciferases, Renilla/biosynthesis/genetics;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;RNA Interference
Expression of human endogenous retrovirus-K coincides with that of micro-RNA-663 and -638 in germ-cell tumor cells	B. Kraus, et al.	2012	23155245	BACKGROUND/AIM: The cell line GH was established from germ-cell tumor tissue; human endogenous retrovirus-K (HERV-K) expression was detectable after prolonged culture of the cells, particularly in cells that formed domes and vesicles. In addition, keeping GH cells in culture at high cell densities increased HERV-K expression. Here, we studied whether this inducible HERV-K expression is accompanied by differences in microRNA (miRNA) expression patterns of GH cells. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The global miRNA expression pattern of GH cell samples (HERV-K high versus low) was analyzed by miRNA arrays. RESULTS: Two miRNAs were found to be differentially regulated and to exhibit expression parallel to that of HERV-K. The identified miRNAs-663 and -638, have been reported to be involved in multiple processes, including cellular senescence. However, induction of HERV-K expression did not change the cellular senescence status of GH cells. CONCLUSION: The expression of these two miRNAs might be useful as novel diagnostic and prognostic markers in patients with tumors.	Blotting, Northern;Blotting, Western;Endogenous Retroviruses;Gene Products, env/analysis/biosynthesis;Humans;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Neoplasms, Germ Cell and Embryonal/ genetics/ virology;Prognosis;Transcriptome
Inhibition of adipogenic differentiation of human SGBS preadipocytes by androgen-regulated microRNA miR-375	M. Kraus, et al.	2015	26219823	Late-onset hypogonadism (LOH), defined as a combination of low serum testosterone (T) levels in combination with clinical signs and symptoms of androgen deficiency in ageing men, is nowadays a well-characterized disease. Testosterone therapy in males affected by hypogonadism leads to a significant decrease of fat mass. In humans, the exact molecular mechanism of T effects on inhibition of adipogenesis is still unknown. We hypothesized that specific microRNAs could be regulated by androgens which might cause an inhibition of adipogenic differentiation. To confirm this hypothesis, human mesenchymal stem cells and a preadipocyte cell line were differentiated into mature adipocytes and in parallel treated with testosterone and dihydrotestosterone. The expression level of miR-375 was upregulated during adipogenic differentiation and downregulated after androgen treatment. Furthermore, we could show that after androgen treatment the decreased expression of miR-375 led to increased expression levels of adiponectin receptor 2 (ADIPOR2) compared to untreated adipocytes. Moreover, inhibition of miR-375 also mediated a decreased adipogenic differentiation and increased ADIPOR2 expression levels. In summary, we identified miR-375 as an androgen regulated microRNA, which could play an important role for understanding the mechanism of the increase in visceral fat mass and the associated insulin resistance caused by testosterone deficiency.	Adipocytes/cytology/drug effects/metabolism;Adipogenesis/ drug effects;Androgens/ pharmacology;Cell Differentiation/drug effects;Cell Line;Dihydrotestosterone/pharmacology;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;Humans;Male;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/cytology/drug effects/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Receptors, Adiponectin/ genetics/metabolism;Testosterone/pharmacology;Adipor2;Androgens;Insulin resistance;Late-onset hypogonadism;miR-375
Global and local perturbation of the tomato microRNA pathway by a trans-activated DICER-LIKE 1 mutant	M. Kravchik, et al.	2014	24376253	DICER-like 1 (DCL1) is a major player in microRNA (miRNA) biogenesis and accordingly, its few known loss-of-function mutants are either lethal or display arrested development. Consequently, generation of dcl1 mutants by reverse genetics and functional analysis of DCL1 in late-developing organs are challenging. Here, these challenges were resolved through the unique use of trans-activated RNA interference. Global, as well as organ-specific tomato DCL1 (SlDCL1) silencing was induced by crossing the generated responder line (OP:SlDCL1IR) with the appropriate driver line. Constitutive trans-activation knocked down SlDCL1 levels by ~95%, resulting in severe abnormalities including post-germination growth arrest accompanied by decreased miRNA and 21-nucleotide small RNA levels, but prominently elevated levels of 22-nucleotide small RNAs. The increase in the 22-nucleotide small RNAs was correlated with specific up-regulation of SlDCL2b and SlDCL2d, which are probably involved in their biogenesis. Leaf- and flower-specific OP:SlDCL1IR trans-activation inhibited blade outgrowth, induced premature bud senescence and produced pale petals, respectively, emphasizing the importance of SlDCL1-dependent small RNAs in these processes. Together, these results establish OP:SlDCL1IR as an efficient tool for analysing processes regulated by SlDCL1-mediated gene regulation in tomato.	Base Sequence;Carotenoids/metabolism;Flowers/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Plant;Gene Silencing;Genes, Reporter;Lycopersicon esculentum/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Mutation/ genetics;Phenotype;Plant Leaves/anatomy & histology/genetics;Plant Proteins/ metabolism;RNA, Plant/genetics/metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/metabolism;Ribonuclease III/ metabolism;Seedlings/genetics;Sequence Homology, Amino Acid;Transcriptional Activation/ genetics;Up-Regulation/genetics;Carotenoid;Dcl1;leaf;miRNA;mutant;petal;tomato.
miRNAs in human subcutaneous adipose tissue: Effects of weight loss induced by hypocaloric diet and exercise	M. M. Kristensen, et al.	2017	28158925	OBJECTIVE: Obesity is central in the development of insulin resistance. However, the underlying mechanisms still need elucidation. Dysregulated microRNAs (miRNAs; post-transcriptional regulators) in adipose tissue may present an important link. METHODS: The miRNA expression in subcutaneous adipose tissue from 19 individuals with severe obesity (10 women and 9 men) before and after a 15-week weight loss intervention was studied using genome-wide microarray analysis. The microarray results were validated with RT-qPCR, and pathway enrichment analysis of in silico predicted targets was performed to elucidate the biological consequences of the miRNA dysregulation. Lastly, the messenger RNA (mRNA) and/or protein expression of multiple predicted targets as well as several proteins involved in lipolysis were investigated. RESULTS: The intervention led to upregulation of miR-29a-3p and miR-29a-5p and downregulation of miR-20b-5p. The mRNA and protein expression of predicted targets was not significantly affected by the intervention. However, negative correlations between miR-20b-5p and the protein levels of its predicted target, acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 1, were observed. Several other miRNA-target relationships correlated negatively, indicating possible miRNA regulation, including miR-29a-3p and lipoprotein lipase mRNA levels. Proteins involved in lipolysis were not affected by the intervention. CONCLUSIONS: Weight loss influenced several miRNAs, some of which were negatively correlated with predicted targets. These dysregulated miRNAs may affect adipocytokine signaling and forkhead box protein O signaling.	Adult;Diet, Reducing;Down-Regulation;Exercise;Feeding Behavior;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Obesity/genetics/ metabolism/ therapy;Subcutaneous Fat/ metabolism;Treatment Outcome;Weight Loss/ physiology
Dynamic and differential regulation in the microRNA expression in the developing and mature cataractous rat lens	E. Kubo, et al.	2013	23844765	Recent evidence supports a role for microRNAs (miRNAs) in regulating gene expression, and alterations in gene expression are known to affect cells involved in the development of ageing disorders. Using developing rat lens epithelial cells (LECs), we profiled the expression of miRNAs by a microarray-based approach. Few gene expression changes known to be involved in pathogenesis or cytoprotection were uniquely influenced by miRNA expression. Most miRNAs increased or decreased in abundance (let 7b, let 7c, miR29a, miR29c, miR126 and miR551b) in LECs/lenses during late embryonic and post-natal development and in cataract. Among them, miR29a, miR29c and miR126 were dramatically decreased in cataractous LECs from Shumiya Cataract Rats (SCRs). Specifically, the cytoskeleton remodelling genes tropomyosin (Tm) 1alpha and 2beta, which have been implicated in the initiation of pathophysiology, were targets of miR29c and were over-stimulated as demonstrated by inhibitor experiments. In transfection experiments, increasing the level of miR29c caused a corresponding decrease in the expression of Tm1alpha and 2beta, suggesting that miR29c may regulate the translation of Tm1alpha and 2beta. 3'UTR luciferase activity of Tm1alpha, not 2beta, was significantly decreased in miR29c-transfected mouse LECs. These findings demonstrate changes in miRNAs expression, and target molecules have potential as diagnostic indicators of ageing and as a foundation of miR-based therapeutics for age-related diseases.	Animals;Cataract/ genetics/pathology;Down-Regulation/genetics;Epithelial Cells/metabolism/pathology;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Genes, Reporter/genetics;Lens, Crystalline/ growth & development/ metabolism/pathology;Luciferases/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Reproducibility of Results;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction/genetics;Up-Regulation/genetics;ageing;cataract;lens development;microRNA;tropomyosin
Investigations into cytotoxic effects of the herbal preparation Abnormal Savda Munziq	H. Kuhnel, et al.	2015	25967604	OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effects of Abnormal Savda Munziq (ASMq), a traditional herbal medicine, for the prevention and treatment of human diseases, e.g. bowel cancer. METHODS: The parameters total polyphenol content, cell proliferation and DNA-damage as well as RNA and protein-oxidation were analysed in vitro. Besides, the expressions of miRNA and tumor suppressor genes as well as cellular senescence were evaluated. RESULTS: ASMq had a high polyphenol content and induced damage to proteins, RNA as well as to DNA, which is correlated with its cytotoxicity. Furthermore ASMq up-regulated the tumor suppressor genes p21, p53 and p16 and down-regulated the micro-RNAs hsa-mir-17 and hsa-mir-106b. In addition cellular growth arrest and SA-beta-gal-staining were induced. CONCLUSION: ASMq has the ability to induce DNA damage and cellular senescence, which are double-edged mechanisms in fighting cancer, as they might also have harmful side effects.	
Nutlin-3a activates p53 to both down-regulate inhibitor of growth 2 and up-regulate mir-34a, mir-34b, and mir-34c expression, and induce senescence	K. Kumamoto, et al.	2008	18451145	Nutlin-3, an MDM2 inhibitor, activates p53, resulting in several types of cancer cells undergoing apoptosis. Although p53 is mutated or deleted in approximately 50% of all cancers, p53 is still functionally active in the other 50%. Consequently, nutlin-3 and similar drugs could be candidates for neoadjuvant therapy in cancers with a functional p53. Cellular senescence is also a phenotype induced by p53 activation and plays a critical role in protecting against tumor development. In this report, we found that nutlin-3a can induce senescence in normal human fibroblasts. Nutlin-3a activated and repressed a large number of p53-dependent genes, including those encoding microRNAs. mir-34a, mir-34b, and mir-34c, which have recently been shown to be downstream effectors of p53-mediated senescence, were up-regulated, and inhibitor of growth 2 (ING2) expression was suppressed by nutlin-3a treatment. Two candidates for a p53-DNA binding consensus sequence were found in the ING2 promoter regulatory region; thus, we performed chromatin immunoprecipitation and electrophoretic mobility shift assays and confirmed p53 binding directly to those sites. In addition, the luciferase activity of a construct containing the ING2 regulatory region was repressed after p53 activation. Antisense knockdown of ING2 induces p53-independent senescence, whereas overexpression of ING2 induces p53-dependent senescence. Taken together, we conclude that nutlin-3a induces senescence through p53 activation in normal human fibroblasts, and p53-mediated mir34a, mir34b, and mir34c up-regulation and ING2 down-regulation may be involved in the senescence pathway.	Base Sequence;Cell Aging/ drug effects/genetics;Cells, Cultured;Down-Regulation;Fibroblasts/drug effects/physiology;Gene Expression Regulation;HCT116 Cells;Homeodomain Proteins/ genetics;Humans;Imidazoles/ pharmacology;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Piperazines/ pharmacology;Promoter Regions, Genetic;Protein Binding/drug effects;Receptors, Cytoplasmic and Nuclear/ genetics;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/ metabolism/physiology;Tumor Suppressor Proteins/ genetics;Up-Regulation
Negative regulation of the tumor suppressor p53 gene by microRNAs	M. Kumar, et al.	2011	20935678	The tumor suppressor p53, encoded by the TP53 gene, is recognized as the guardian of the human genome because it regulates many downstream genes to exercise its function in cell cycle and cell death. Recent studies have revealed that several microRNAs (miRNAs) are important components of the p53 tumor suppressor network with miR-125b and miR-504 directly targeting TP53. In this study, we use a screening method to identify that two miRNAs (miR-25 and miR-30d) directly target the 3'UTR of TP53 to downregulate p53 protein levels and reduce the expression of genes that are transcriptionally activated by p53. Correspondingly, both miR-25 and miR-30d adversely affect apoptotic cell death, cell cycle arrest and cellular senescence. Inhibition of either miR-25 or miR-30d expression increases endogenous p53 expression and elevates cellular apoptosis in several cell lines, including one from multiple myeloma that has little TP53 mutations. Thus, beyond miR-125b and miR-504, the human TP53 gene is negatively regulated by two more miRNAs: miR-25 and miR-30d.	Apoptosis/genetics;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Cycle/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ genetics
Circulating miRNA biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease	P. Kumar, et al.	2013	23922807	A minimally invasive diagnostic assay for early detection of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is required to select optimal patient groups in clinical trials, monitor disease progression and response to treatment, and to better plan patient clinical care. Blood is an attractive source for biomarkers due to minimal discomfort to the patient, encouraging greater compliance in clinical trials and frequent testing. MiRNAs belong to the class of non-coding regulatory RNA molecules of approximately 22 nt length and are now recognized to regulate approximately 60% of all known genes through post-transcriptional gene silencing (RNAi). They have potential as useful biomarkers for clinical use because of their stability and ease of detection in many tissues, especially blood. Circulating profiles of miRNAs have been shown to discriminate different tumor types, indicate staging and progression of the disease and to be useful as prognostic markers. Recently their role in neurodegenerative diseases, both as diagnostic biomarkers as well as explaining basic disease etiology has come into focus. Here we report the discovery and validation of a unique circulating 7-miRNA signature (hsa-let-7d-5p, hsa-let-7g-5p, hsa-miR-15b-5p, hsa-miR-142-3p, hsa-miR-191-5p, hsa-miR-301a-3p and hsa-miR-545-3p) in plasma, which could distinguish AD patients from normal controls (NC) with >95% accuracy (AUC of 0.953). There was a >2 fold difference for all signature miRNAs between the AD and NC samples, with p-values<0.05. Pathway analysis, taking into account enriched target mRNAs for these signature miRNAs was also carried out, suggesting that the disturbance of multiple enzymatic pathways including lipid metabolism could play a role in AD etiology.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ blood/genetics;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood;Middle Aged;RNA Interference
MicroRNAs as Peripheral Biomarkers in Aging and Age-Related Diseases	S. Kumar, et al.	2017	28253991	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are found in the circulatory biofluids considering the important molecules for biomarker study in aging and age-related diseases. Blood or blood components (serum/plasma) are primary sources of circulatory miRNAs and can release these in cell-free form either bound with some protein components or encapsulated with microvesicle particles, called exosomes. miRNAs are quite stable in the peripheral circulation and can be detected by high-throughput techniques like qRT-PCR, microarray, and sequencing. Intracellular miRNAs could modulate mRNA activity through target-specific binding and play a crucial role in intercellular communications. At a pathological level, changes in cellular homeostasis lead to the modulation of molecular function of cells; as a result, miRNA expression is deregulated. Deregulated miRNAs came out from cells and frequently circulate in extracellular body fluids as part of various human diseases. Most common aging-associated diseases are cardiovascular disease, cancer, arthritis, dementia, cataract, osteoporosis, diabetes, hypertension, and neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, Parkinson's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Variation in the miRNA signature in a diseased peripheral circulatory system opens up a new avenue in the field of biomarker discovery. Here, we measure the biomarker potential of circulatory miRNAs in aging and various aging-related pathologies. However, further more confirmatory researches are needed to elaborate these findings at the translation level.	Age-related diseases;Aging;Alzheimer's disease;Biomarker;Circulatory microRNA
Study to Improve Cardiovascular Outcomes in high-risk older patieNts (ICON1) with acute coronary syndrome: study design and protocol of a prospective observational study	V. Kunadian, et al.	2016	27554105	INTRODUCTION: The ICON1 study (a study to Improve Cardiovascular Outcomes in high-risk older patieNts with acute coronary syndrome) is a prospective observational study of older patients (>/=75 years old) with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome managed by contemporary treatment (pharmacological and invasive). The aim of the study was to determine the predictors of poor cardiovascular outcomes in this age group and to generate a risk prediction tool. METHODS AND ANALYSIS: Participants are recruited from 2 tertiary hospitals in the UK. Baseline evaluation includes frailty, comorbidity, cognition and quality-of-life measures, inflammatory status assessed by a biomarker panel, including microRNAs, senescence assessed by telomere length and telomerase activity, cardiovascular status assessed by arterial stiffness, endothelial function, carotid intima media thickness and left ventricular systolic and diastolic function, and coronary plaque assessed by virtual histology intravascular ultrasound and optical coherence tomography. The patients are followed-up at 30 days and at 1 year for primary outcome measures of death, myocardial infarction, stroke, unplanned revascularisation, bleeding and rehospitalisation. ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The study has been approved by the regional ethics committee (REC 12/NE/016). Findings of the study will be presented in scientific sessions and will be published in peer-reviewed journals. TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT01933581: Pre-results.	Study design;acute coronary syndrome;older patients
Genome-wide linkage analyses of non-Hispanic white families identify novel loci for familial late-onset Alzheimer's disease	B. W. Kunkle, et al.	2016	26365416	INTRODUCTION: Few high penetrance variants that explain risk in late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) families have been found. METHODS: We performed genome-wide linkage and identity-by-descent (IBD) analyses on 41 non-Hispanic white families exhibiting likely dominant inheritance of LOAD, and having no mutations at known familial Alzheimer's disease (AD) loci, and a low burden of APOE epsilon4 alleles. RESULTS: Two-point parametric linkage analysis identified 14 significantly linked regions, including three novel linkage regions for LOAD (5q32, 11q12.2-11q14.1, and 14q13.3), one of which replicates a genome-wide association LOAD locus, the MS4A6A-MS4A4E gene cluster at 11q12.2. Five of the 14 regions (3q25.31, 4q34.1, 8q22.3, 11q12.2-14.1, and 19q13.41) are supported by strong multipoint results (logarithm of odds [LOD*] >/=1.5). Nonparametric multipoint analyses produced an additional significant locus at 14q32.2 (LOD* = 4.18). The 1-LOD confidence interval for this region contains one gene, C14orf177, and the microRNA Mir_320, whereas IBD analyses implicates an additional gene BCL11B, a regulator of brain-derived neurotrophic signaling, a pathway associated with pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative diseases. DISCUSSION: Examination of these regions after whole-genome sequencing may identify highly penetrant variants for familial LOAD.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics;Apolipoproteins E/genetics;European Continental Ancestry Group/ genetics;Genetic Linkage;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Genome-Wide Association Study;Humans;Middle Aged;Pedigree;Familial;Genetics;High penetrance;Identity by descent;Late-onset Alzheimer's disease;Linkage;Non-Hispanic white
NEK9-dependent proliferation of cancer cells lacking functional p53	D. Kurioka, et al.	2014	25131192	Dysfunction of the p53 network is a major cause of cancer development, and selective elimination of p53-inactivated cancer cells therefore represents an ideal therapeutic strategy. In this study, we performed a microRNA target screen that identified NEK9 (NIMA-related kinase 9) as a crucial regulator of cell-cycle progression in p53-inactivated cancer cells. NEK9 depletion selectively inhibited proliferation in p53-deficient cancer cells both in vitro and in vivo. The resultant cell-cycle arrest occurred predominantly in G1 phase, and exhibited senescence-like features. Furthermore, NEK9 repression affected expression of a broad range of genes encoding cell-cycle regulators and factors involved in mRNA processing, suggesting a novel role for NEK9 in p53-deficient cells. Lung adenocarcinoma patients with positive staining for NEK9 and mutant p53 proteins exhibited significantly poorer prognoses, suggesting that expression of both proteins promotes tumor growth. Our findings demonstrate that a novel NEK9 network regulates the growth of cancer cells lacking functional p53.	Adenocarcinoma/ genetics/mortality;Animals;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation/genetics;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/biosynthesis;Female;G1 Phase Cell Cycle Checkpoints/ genetics;Humans;Lung Neoplasms/ genetics/mortality;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase 14/biosynthesis;NIMA-Related Kinases;Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases/ genetics;RNA Interference;RNA, Small Interfering;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ genetics;Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays
Ginsenoside Rb(1) induces type I collagen expression through peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-delta	H. H. Kwok, et al.	2012	22692056	Wrinkle formation is one of the primary characteristics of skin aging, the major cause of wrinkle is the loss of structural protein type I collagen in dermal layer of skin. Topical application of natural substances to reduce wrinkle is gaining attention in recent years. Although a number of polyphenoic compounds are suggested to prevent ultraviolet-induced wrinkle, very few of them are able to increase type I collagen synthesis directly. Ginseng has been known in folk medicine of its beneficial effect to skin. The present study investigate the effect of ginsenoside on type I collagen induction in human dermal fibroblasts. Ginsenoside Rb(1) was shown to induce type I collagen expression in dermal fibroblasts in a dose- and time-dependent manner. Recent studies suggest the important post-transcriptional regulatory role of microRNAs; here we demonstrated that miR-25 can directly inhibit type I collagen protein expression, and treatment of fibroblasts with Rb(1) can reduce the inhibition by decreasing miR-25 level. Furthermore, we identified that the nuclear receptor, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-delta (PPARdelta) is the key mediator of Rb(1)-induced type I collagen expression. Knockdown of PPARdelta by small-interference RNA abolished the Rb(1)-induced type I collagen production and reversed the Rb(1)-suppressed miR-25 expression. These results demonstrated that ginsenoside Rb(1) can increase target gene expression through transcriptional pathway, at the same time, inhibit the corresponding miRNA expression to minimize the translation repression. Furthermore, this study provide solid support of ginsenoside Rb(1)-induced type I collagen expression, which warrant further study in the dermatological application of ginsenosides in skin disorders.	Cells, Cultured;Collagen Type I/ biosynthesis/genetics;Dermis/ cytology;Dose-Response Relationship, Drug;Fibroblasts/ drug effects/metabolism;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Ginsenosides/ pharmacology;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;PPAR delta/genetics/ metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics
The role of miRNA in motor neuron disease	M. J. Kye and C. Goncalves Ido	2014	24523674	microRNA is a subset of endogenous non-coding RNA. It binds to partially complementary sequences in mRNAs and inhibits mRNA translation by either blocking translational machinery or degrading mRNAs. It is involved in various cellular processes including cell cycle, development, metabolism, and synaptic plasticity. Dysregulation of miRNA expression and function is reported in various diseases including cancer, metabolic disorders as well as neurological disorders. In nervous system, miRNA related pathways play a very important role in development and function of neuronal cells. Moreover, numerous evidences suggest that dysregulated miRNA related pathways contribute to pathology of neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). Here, we review current knowledge about the role of miRNAs in motor neuron disorders, especially about two common diseases: SMA and ALS.	amyotrophic lateral sclerosis;microRNA;motor neurons;neuromuscular junction;spinal muscular atrophy
Myogenic potential of canine craniofacial satellite cells	R. M. La Rovere, et al.	2014	24860499	The skeletal fibers have different embryological origin; the extraocular and jaw-closer muscles develop from prechordal mesoderm while the limb and trunk muscles from somites. These different origins characterize also the adult muscle stem cells, known as satellite cells (SCs) and responsible for the fiber growth and regeneration. The physiological properties of presomitic SCs and their epigenetics are poorly studied despite their peculiar characteristics to preserve muscle integrity during chronic muscle degeneration. Here, we isolated SCs from canine somitic [somite-derived muscle (SDM): vastus lateralis, rectus abdominis, gluteus superficialis, biceps femoris, psoas] and presomitic [pre-somite-derived muscle (PSDM): lateral rectus, temporalis, and retractor bulbi] muscles as myogenic progenitor cells from young and old animals. In addition, SDM and PSDM-SCs were obtained also from golden retrievers affected by muscular dystrophy (GRMD). We characterized the lifespan, the myogenic potential and functions, and oxidative stress of both somitic and presomitic SCs with the aim to reveal differences with aging and between healthy and dystrophic animals. The different proliferation rate was consistent with higher telomerase activity in PSDM-SCs compared to SDM-SCs, although restricted at early passages. SDM-SCs express early (Pax7, MyoD) and late (myosin heavy chain, myogenin) myogenic markers differently from PSDM-SCs resulting in a more efficient and faster cell differentiation. Taken together, our results showed that PSDM-SCs elicit a stronger stem cell phenotype compared to SDM ones. Finally, myomiR expression profile reveals a unique epigenetic signature in GRMD SCs and miR-206, highly expressed in dystrophic SCs, seems to play a critical role in muscle degeneration. Thus, miR-206 could represent a potential target for novel therapeutic approaches.	differentiation;dystrophic muscle;microRNA;presomitic and somitic satellite cells
Role of exosomes/microvesicles in the nervous system and use in emerging therapies	C. P. Lai and X. O. Breakefield	2012	22754538	Extracellular membrane vesicles (EMVs) are nanometer sized vesicles, including exosomes and microvesicles capable of transferring DNAs, mRNAs, microRNAs, non-coding RNAs, proteins, and lipids among cells without direct cell-to-cell contact, thereby representing a novel form of intercellular communication. Many cells in the nervous system have been shown to release EMVs, implicating their active roles in development, function, and pathologies of this system. While substantial progress has been made in understanding the biogenesis, biophysical properties, and involvement of EMVs in diseases, relatively less information is known about their biological function in the normal nervous system. In addition, since EMVs are endogenous vehicles with low immunogenicity, they have also been actively investigated for the delivery of therapeutic genes/molecules in treatment of cancer and neurological diseases. The present review summarizes current knowledge about EMV functions in the nervous system under both physiological and pathological conditions, as well as emerging EMV-based therapies that could be applied to the nervous system in the foreseeable future.	cancer;development;exosomes;microvesicles;neurodegeneration;neuron;neuroregeneration;therapy
Aberrant expression of microRNAs as biomarker for schizophrenia: from acute state to partial remission, and from peripheral blood to cortical tissue	C. Y. Lai, et al.	2016	26784971	Based on our previous finding of a seven-miRNA (hsa-miR-34a, miR-449a, miR-564, miR-432, miR-548d, miR-572 and miR-652) signature as a potential biomarker for schizophrenia, this study aimed to examine if hospitalization could affect expressions of these miRNAs. We compared their expression levels between acute state and partial remission state in people with schizophrenia (n=48) using quantitative PCR method. Further, to examine whether the blood and brain show similar expression patterns, the expressions of two miRNAs (hsa-miR-34a and hsa-miR-548d) were examined in the postmortem brain tissue of people with schizophrenia (n=25) and controls (n=27). The expression level of the seven miRNAs did not alter after ~2 months of hospitalization with significant improvement in clinical symptoms, suggesting the miRNAs could be traits rather than state-dependent markers. The aberrant expression seen in the blood of hsa-miR-34a and hsa-miR-548d were not present in the brain samples, but this does not discount the possibility that the peripheral miRNAs could be clinically useful biomarkers for schizophrenia. Unexpectedly, we found an age-dependent increase in hsa-miR-34a expressions in human cortical (Brodmann area 46 (BA46)) but not subcortical region (caudate putamen). The correlation between hsa-miR-34a expression level in BA46 and age was much stronger in the controls than in the cases, and the corresponding correlation in the blood was only seen in the cases. The association between the miRNA dysregulations, the disease predisposition and aging warrants further investigation. Taken together, this study provides further insight on the candidate peripheral miRNAs as stable biomarkers for the diagnostics of schizophrenia.	Acute Disease;Adult;Aged;Biomarkers/blood/metabolism;Brain/ metabolism;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/blood/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Remission Induction;Schizophrenia/blood/ metabolism;Young Adult
Modulated expression of human peripheral blood microRNAs from infancy to adulthood and its role in aging	C. Y. Lai, et al.	2014	24803090	Accumulating evidence suggests a role for microRNAs (miRNAs) in regulating various processes of mammalian postnatal development and aging. To investigate the changes in blood-based miRNA expression from preterm infants to adulthood, we compared 365 miRNA expression profiles in a screening set of preterm infants and adults. Approximately one-third of the miRNAs were constantly expressed from postnatal development to adulthood, another one-third were differentially expressed between preterm infants and adults, and the remaining one-third were not detectable in these two groups. Based on their expression in infants and adults, the miRNAs were categorized into five classes, and six of the seven miRNAs chosen from each class except one with age-constant expression were confirmed in a validation set containing infants, children, and adults. Comparing the chromosomal locations of the different miRNA classes revealed two hot spots: the miRNA cluster on 14q32.31 exhibited age-constant expression, and the one on 9q22.21 exhibited up-regulation in adults. Furthermore, six miRNAs detectable in adults were down-regulated in older adults, and four chosen for individual quantification were verified in the validation set. Analysis of the network functions revealed that differentially regulated miRNAs between infants and adults and miRNAs that decreased during aging shared two network functions: inflammatory disease and inflammatory response. Four expression patterns existed in the 11 miRNAs from infancy to adulthood, with a significant transition in ages 9-20 years. Our results provide an overview on the regulation pattern of blood miRNAs throughout life and the possible biological functions performed by different classes of miRNAs.	Adult;Aging/ blood/ genetics;Child;Child, Preschool;Chromosomes, Human/genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Gene Regulatory Networks/genetics;Humans;Infant;Infant, Newborn;MicroRNAs/ blood/classification/ genetics;aging;development;microRNA;network function;peripheral blood
p16(INK4a) translation suppressed by miR-24	A. Lal, et al.	2008	18365017	BACKGROUND: Expression of the tumor suppressor p16(INK4a) increases during aging and replicative senescence. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Here, we report that the microRNA miR-24 suppresses p16 expression in human diploid fibroblasts and cervical carcinoma cells. Increased p16 expression with replicative senescence was associated with decreased levels of miR-24, a microRNA that was predicted to associate with the p16 mRNA coding and 3'-untranslated regions. Ectopic miR-24 overexpression reduced p16 protein but not p16 mRNA levels. Conversely, introduction of antisense (AS)-miR-24 blocked miR-24 expression and markedly enhanced p16 protein levels, p16 translation, and the production of EGFP-p16 reporter bearing the miR-24 target recognition sites. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Together, our results suggest that miR-24 represses the initiation and elongation phases of p16 translation.	Base Sequence;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p16/ genetics;DNA Primers;HeLa Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Mutagenesis, Site-Directed;Protein Biosynthesis
MicroRNA-15b regulates mitochondrial ROS production and the senescence-associated secretory phenotype through sirtuin 4/SIRT4	A. Lang, et al.	2016	26959556	Mammalian sirtuins are involved in the control of metabolism and life-span regulation. Here, we link the mitochondrial sirtuin SIRT4 with cellular senescence, skin aging, and mitochondrial dysfunction. SIRT4 expression significantly increased in human dermal fibroblasts undergoing replicative or stress-induced senescence triggered by UVB or gamma-irradiation. In-vivo, SIRT4 mRNA levels were upregulated in photoaged vs. non-photoaged human skin. Interestingly, in all models of cellular senescence and in photoaged skin, upregulation of SIRT4 expression was associated with decreased levels of miR-15b. The latter was causally linked to increased SIRT4 expression because miR-15b targets a functional binding site in the SIRT4 gene and transfection of oligonucleotides mimicking miR-15b function prevented SIRT4 upregulation in senescent cells. Importantly, increased SIRT4 negatively impacted on mitochondrial functions and contributed to the development of a senescent phenotype. Accordingly, we observed that inhibition of miR-15b, in a SIRT4-dependent manner, increased generation of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species, decreased mitochondrial membrane potential, and modulated mRNA levels of nuclear encoded mitochondrial genes and components of the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP). Thus, miR-15b is a negative regulator of stress-induced SIRT4 expression thereby counteracting senescence associated mitochondrial dysfunction and regulating the SASP and possibly organ aging, such as photoaging of human skin.	Cell Aging;Cells, Cultured;Fibroblasts/ metabolism/radiation effects;Gamma Rays;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Mitochondria/ metabolism/radiation effects;Mitochondrial Proteins/ metabolism;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Sirtuins/ metabolism;Skin Aging/ physiology;Ultraviolet Rays;MicroRNA-15b/miR-15b;SIRT4/Sirtuin 4;nuclear encoded mitochondrial genes;photoaging;reactive oxygen species/ROS;senescence;senescence associated secretory phenotype/SASP;skin
Cellular senescence in usual type uterine leiomyoma	J. Laser, et al.	2010	19217096	OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the role of senescence in symptomatic patients with multifibroids. DESIGN: A cohort study. SETTING: University research laboratory. PATIENT(S): Eighty-six fibroids collected from 14 patients who underwent myomectomy or hysterectomy. INTERVENTION(S): Senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-Gal) stain in fresh-frozen tissue; reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR); MicroRNA in situ hybridization (MISH); immunohistochemistry in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Senescence measured by percentage of SA-beta-Gal-positive cells; levels of let-7 microRNAs measured by RT-PCR and MISH; expression of p16(INK4a), Ki-67, HMGA1, and HMGA2 scaled by immunoreactivity. RESULT(S): About 58% (48 of 82) of tumors showed significant senescent change (SA-beta-Gal positive) in >10% of the tumor volume. The overall trend was a higher level of senescence in small fibroids and older-aged women. Senescent fibroids were additionally shown to have, high levels of let-7 c, d, and f-2 and a low Ki-67 index. CONCLUSION(S): Senescence is a common cellular change in a large proportion of usual type fibroids. Similarly, senescence may explain the variation in growth rates of these tumors, and may prove to be an important molecular and cellular target in prevention of fibroid growth.	Adult;Cell Aging/ physiology;Cohort Studies;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Ki-67 Antigen/metabolism;Leiomyoma/genetics/metabolism/pathology/ physiopathology;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;Uterine Neoplasms/genetics/metabolism/pathology/ physiopathology;Validation Studies as Topic;beta-Galactosidase/metabolism
MicroRNA-375/SEC23A as biomarkers of the in vitro efficacy of vandetanib	S. Lassalle, et al.	2016	27036030	In this study, we performed microRNA (miRNA) expression profiling on a large series of sporadic and hereditary forms of medullary thyroid carcinomas (MTC). More than 60 miRNAs were significantly deregulated in tumor vs adjacent non-tumor tissues, partially overlapping with results of previous studies. We focused our attention on the strongest up-regulated miRNA in MTC samples, miR-375, the deregulation of which has been previously observed in a variety of human malignancies including MTC. We identified miR-375 targets by combining gene expression signatures from human MTC (TT) and normal follicular (Nthy-ori 3-1) cell lines transfected with an antagomiR-375 inhibitor or a miR-375 mimic, respectively, and from an in silico analysis of thyroid cell lines of Cancer Cell Line Encyclopedia datasets. This approach identified SEC23A as a bona fide miR-375 target, which we validated by immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry of non-tumor and pathological thyroid tissue. Furthermore, we observed that miR-375 overexpression was associated with decreased cell proliferation and synergistically increased sensitivity to vandetanib, the clinically relevant treatment of metastatic MTC. We found that miR-375 increased PARP cleavage and decreased AKT phosphorylation, affecting both cell proliferation and viability. We confirmed these results through SEC23A direct silencing in combination with vandetanib, highlighting the importance of SEC23A in the miR-375-associated increased sensitivity to vandetanib.Since the combination of increased expression of miR-375 and decreased expression of SEC23A point to sensitivity to vandetanib, we question if the expression levels of miR-375 and SEC23A should be evaluated as an indicator of eligibility for treatment of MTC patients with vandetanib.	medullary thyroid carcinoma;microRNA;microRNA-375;treatment;vandetanib
Alteration of the microRNA network during the progression of Alzheimer's disease	P. Lau, et al.	2013	24014289	An overview of miRNAs altered in Alzheimer's disease (AD) was established by profiling the hippocampus of a cohort of 41 late-onset AD (LOAD) patients and 23 controls, showing deregulation of 35 miRNAs. Profiling of miRNAs in the prefrontal cortex of a second independent cohort of 49 patients grouped by Braak stages revealed 41 deregulated miRNAs. We focused on miR-132-3p which is strongly altered in both brain areas. Downregulation of this miRNA occurs already at Braak stages III and IV, before loss of neuron-specific miRNAs. Next-generation sequencing confirmed a strong decrease of miR-132-3p and of three family-related miRNAs encoded by the same miRNA cluster on chromosome 17. Deregulation of miR-132-3p in AD brain appears to occur mainly in neurons displaying Tau hyper-phosphorylation. We provide evidence that miR-132-3p may contribute to disease progression through aberrant regulation of mRNA targets in the Tau network. The transcription factor (TF) FOXO1a appears to be a key target of miR-132-3p in this pathway.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Area Under Curve;Brain/metabolism;Chromosomes, Human, Pair 17;Cluster Analysis;Cohort Studies;Disease Progression;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Profiling;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Hippocampus/metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Neurons/metabolism;Phosphorylation;ROC Curve;Severity of Illness Index;tau Proteins/metabolism;Alzheimer's disease;hippocampus;miR-132-3p;microRNA;prefrontal cortex
Long-lasting alterations to DNA methylation and ncRNAs could underlie the effects of fetal alcohol exposure in mice	B. I. Laufer, et al.	2013	23580197	Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs) are characterized by life-long changes in gene expression, neurodevelopment and behavior. What mechanisms initiate and maintain these changes are not known, but current research suggests a role for alcohol-induced epigenetic changes. In this study we assessed alterations to adult mouse brain tissue by assaying DNA cytosine methylation and small noncoding RNA (ncRNA) expression, specifically the microRNA (miRNA) and small nucleolar RNA (snoRNA) subtypes. We found long-lasting alterations in DNA methylation as a result of fetal alcohol exposure, specifically in the imprinted regions of the genome harboring ncRNAs and sequences interacting with regulatory proteins. A large number of major nodes from the identified networks, such as Pten signaling, contained transcriptional repressor CTCF-binding sites in their promoters, illustrating the functional consequences of alcohol-induced changes to DNA methylation. Next, we assessed ncRNA expression using two independent array platforms and quantitative PCR. The results identified 34 genes that are targeted by the deregulated miRNAs. Of these, four (Pten, Nmnat1, Slitrk2 and Otx2) were viewed as being crucial in the context of FASDs given their roles in the brain. Furthermore, approximately 20% of the altered ncRNAs mapped to three imprinted regions (Snrpn-Ube3a, Dlk1-Dio3 and Sfmbt2) that showed differential methylation and have been previously implicated in neurodevelopmental disorders. The findings of this study help to expand on the mechanisms behind the long-lasting changes in the brain transcriptome of FASD individuals. The observed changes could contribute to the initiation and maintenance of the long-lasting effect of alcohol.	Aging/genetics;Animals;Binding Sites/genetics;Brain/metabolism/pathology;Cluster Analysis;Computational Biology;DNA Methylation/ genetics;Epigenesis, Genetic;Female;Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Gene Regulatory Networks/genetics;Genome/genetics;Male;Maternal Exposure/adverse effects;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Models, Genetic;Pregnancy;Promoter Regions, Genetic/genetics;Protein Binding/genetics;RNA, Untranslated/ genetics/metabolism;Repressor Proteins/metabolism;Reproducibility of Results;Time Factors
MicroRNAs miR-203-3p, miR-664-3p and miR-708-5p are associated with median strain lifespan in mice	B. P. Lee, et al.	2017	28304372	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNA species that have been shown to have roles in multiple processes that occur in higher eukaryotes. They act by binding to specific sequences in the 3' untranslated region of their target genes and causing the transcripts to be degraded by the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC). MicroRNAs have previously been reported to demonstrate altered expression in several aging phenotypes such as cellular senescence and age itself. Here, we have measured the expression levels of 521 small regulatory microRNAs (miRNAs) in spleen tissue from young and old animals of 6 mouse strains with different median strain lifespans by quantitative real-time PCR. Expression levels of 3 microRNAs were robustly associated with strain lifespan, after correction for multiple statistical testing (miR-203-3p [beta-coefficient = -0.6447, p = 4.8 x 10-11], miR-664-3p [beta-coefficient = 0.5552, p = 5.1 x 10-8] and miR-708-5p [beta-coefficient = 0.4986, p = 1.6 x 10-6]). Pathway analysis of binding sites for these three microRNAs revealed enrichment of target genes involved in key aging and longevity pathways including mTOR, FOXO and MAPK, most of which also demonstrated associations with longevity. Our results suggests that miR-203-3p, miR-664-3p and miR-708-5p may be implicated in pathways determining lifespan in mammals.	
Integrated analysis of omics data using microRNA-target mRNA network and PPI network reveals regulation of Gnai1 function in the spinal cord of Ews/Ewsr1 KO mice	C. J. Lee, et al.	2016	27534535	BACKGROUND: Multifunctional transcription factor (TF) gene EWS/EWSR1 is involved in various cellular processes such as transcription regulation, noncoding RNA regulation, splicing regulation, genotoxic stress response, and cancer generation. Role of a TF gene can be effectively studied by measuring genome-wide gene expression, i.e., transcriptome, in an animal model of Ews/Ewsr1 knockout (KO). However, when a TF gene has complex multi-functions, conventional approaches such as differentially expressed genes (DEGs) analysis are not successful to characterize the role of the EWS gene. In this regard, network-based analyses that consider associations among genes are the most promising approach. METHODS: Networks are constructed and used to show associations among biological entities at various levels, thus different networks represent association at different levels. Taken together, in this paper, we report contributions on both computational and biological sides. RESULTS: Contribution on the computational side is to develop a novel computational framework that combines miRNA-gene network and protein-protein interaction network information to characterize the multifunctional role of EWS gene. On the biological side, we report that EWS regulates G-protein, Gnai1, in the spinal cord of Ews/Ewsr1 KO mice using the two biological network integrated analysis method. Neighbor proteins of Gnai1, G-protein complex subunits Gnb1, Gnb2 and Gnb4 were also down-regulated at their gene expression level. Interestingly, up-regulated genes, such as Rgs1 and Rgs19, are linked to the inhibition of Gnai1 activities. We further verified the altered expression of Gnai1 by qRT-PCR in Ews/Ewsr1 KO mice. CONCLUSIONS: Our integrated analysis of miRNA-transcriptome network and PPI network combined with qRT-PCR verifies that Gnai1 function is impaired in the spinal cord of Ews/Ewsr1 KO mice.	Ews;Ewsr1;Gnai1;Mmia;Network analysis;Ppi
Distinct Expression of Long Non-Coding RNAs in an Alzheimer's Disease Model	D. Y. Lee, et al.	2015	25624420	With the recent advancement in transcriptome-wide profiling approach, numerous non-coding transcripts previously unknown have been identified. Among the non-coding transcripts, long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have received increasing attention for their capacity to modulate transcriptional regulation. Although alterations in the expressions of non-coding RNAs have been studied in Alzheimer's disease (AD), most research focused on the involvement of microRNAs, and comprehensive expression profiling of lncRNAs in AD has been lacking. In this study, microarray analysis was performed to procure the expression profile of lncRNAs dysregulated in a triple transgenic model of AD (3xTg-AD). A total of 4,622 lncRNAs were analyzed: 205 lncRNAs were significantly dysregulated in 3xTg-AD compared with control mice, and 230 lncRNAs were significantly dysregulated within 3xTg-AD in an age-dependent manner (>/=2.0-fold, p < 0.05). Among these, 27 and 15 lncRNAs, respectively, had adjacent protein-coding genes whose expressions were also significantly dysregulated. A majority of these lncRNAs and their adjacent genes shared the same direction of dysregulation. For these pairs of lncRNAs and adjacent genes, significant Gene Ontology terms were DNA-dependent regulation of transcription, transcription regulator activity, and embryonic organ morphogenesis. One of the most highly upregulated lncRNAs had a 395 bp core sequence that overlapped with multiple chromosomal regions. This is the first study that comprehensively identified dysregulated lncRNAs in 3xTg-AD mice and will likely facilitate the development of therapeutics targeting lncRNAs in AD.	Age Factors;Alzheimer Disease/genetics/ metabolism;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/genetics;Animals;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression Regulation/ genetics;Gene Ontology;Humans;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;Microarray Analysis;Mutation/genetics;Presenilin-1/genetics;RNA, Long Noncoding/ genetics/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Signal Transduction/genetics;tau Proteins/genetics;3xTg-AD;Alzheimer's disease;long non-coding RNAs;microarray
WIG1 is crucial for AGO2-mediated ACOT7 mRNA silencing via miRNA-dependent and -independent mechanisms	H. C. Lee, et al.	2017	28472401	RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) are involved in mRNA splicing, maturation, transport, translation, storage and turnover. Here, we identified ACOT7 mRNA as a novel target of human WIG1. ACOT7 mRNA decay was triggered by the microRNA miR-9 in a WIG1-dependent manner via classic recruitment of Argonaute 2 (AGO2). Interestingly, AGO2 was also recruited to ACOT7 mRNA in a WIG1-dependent manner in the absence of miR-9, which indicates an alternative model whereby WIG1 controls AGO2-mediated gene silencing. The WIG1-AGO2 complex attenuated translation initiation via an interaction with translation initiation factor 5B (eIF5B). These results were confirmed using a WIG1 tethering system based on the MS2 bacteriophage coat protein and a reporter construct containing an MS2-binding site, and by immunoprecipitation of WIG1 and detection of WIG1-associated proteins using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. We also identified WIG1-binding motifs using photoactivatable ribonucleoside-enhanced crosslinking and immunoprecipitation analyses. Altogether, our data indicate that WIG1 governs the miRNA-dependent and the miRNA-independent recruitment of AGO2 to lower the stability of and suppress the translation of ACOT7 mRNA.	
Controlling SIRT1 expression by microRNAs in health and metabolic disease	J. Lee and J. K. Kemper	2010	20689156	SIRT1 is a NAD+-dependent deacetylase implicated in longevity and diverse physiological processes. SIRT1, as a key mediator of beneficial effects of caloric restriction, regulates lipid and glucose metabolism by deacetylating metabolic regulators, as well as histones, in response to nutritional deprivation. Here we discuss how SIRT1 levels are regulated by microRNAs (miRs) which are emerging as important metabolic regulators; the recently identified nuclear receptor FXR/SHP cascade pathway that controls the expression of miR-34a and its target SIRT1; and a FXR/SIRT1 positive feedback regulatory loop, which is deregulated in metabolic disease states. The FXR/miR-34a pathway and other miRs controlling SIRT1 may be useful therapeutic targets for age-related diseases, including metabolic disorders.	Animals;Caloric Restriction;Cells, Cultured;Diptera;Food Deprivation/physiology;Gene Expression;Glucose/ genetics/metabolism;Group III Histone Deacetylases/genetics/metabolism;Humans;Lipid Metabolism/ genetics;Longevity/ physiology;Metabolic Diseases/ genetics/ metabolism/physiopathology;Mice;Mice, Obese;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Receptors, Cytoplasmic and Nuclear/physiology;Signal Transduction;Sirtuin 1/ physiology;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/physiology
A pathway involving farnesoid X receptor and small heterodimer partner positively regulates hepatic sirtuin 1 levels via microRNA-34a inhibition	J. Lee, et al.	2010	20185821	Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) is a NAD-dependent deacetylase that is critically involved in diverse cellular processes including metabolic disease, cancer, and possibly aging. Despite extensive studies on SIRT1 function, how SIRT1 levels are regulated remains relatively unknown. Here, we report that the nuclear bile acid receptor farnesoid X receptor (FXR) inhibits microRNA-34a (miR-34a) in the liver, which results in a positive regulation of SIRT1 levels. Activation of FXR by the synthetic agonist GW4064 decreases hepatic miR-34a levels in normal mice, and consistently, hepatic miR-34a levels are elevated in FXR-null mice. FXR induces expression of small heterodimer partner (SHP), an orphan nuclear receptor and transcriptional corepressor, which in turn results in repression of p53, a key activator of the miR-34a gene, by inhibiting p53 occupancy at the promoter. MiR-34a decreased SIRT1 levels by binding to the 3'-untranslated region of SIRT1 mRNA, and adenovirus-mediated overexpression of miR-34a substantially decreased SIRT1 protein levels in mouse liver. Remarkably, miR-34a levels were elevated, and SIRT1 protein levels were reduced in diet-induced obese mice, and FXR activation in these mice reversed the miR-34a and SIRT1 levels, indicating an intriguing link among FXR activation, decreased miR-34a, and subsequently, increased SIRT1 levels. Our study demonstrates an unexpected role of the FXR/SHP pathway in controlling SIRT1 levels via miR-34a inhibition and that elevated miR-34a levels in obese mice contribute to decreased SIRT1 levels. Manipulation of this regulatory network may be useful for treating diseases of aging, such as metabolic disease and cancer.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Animals;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects/genetics;Hep G2 Cells;Humans;Isoxazoles/pharmacology;Liver/ metabolism;Mice;Mice, Obese;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Promoter Regions, Genetic/genetics;Receptors, Cytoplasmic and Nuclear/agonists/genetics/ metabolism;Sirtuin 1/ biosynthesis/genetics;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/metabolism
Neuronal Functions of ESCRTs	J. A. Lee and F. B. Gao	2012	22438674	The endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRTs) regulate protein trafficking from endosomes to lysosomes. Recent studies have shown that ESCRTs are involved in various cellular processes, including membrane scission, microRNA function, viral budding, and the autophagy pathway in many tissues, including the nervous system. Indeed, dysfunctional ESCRTs are associated with neurodegeneration. However, it remains largely elusive how ESCRTs act in post-mitotic neurons, a highly specialized cell type that requires dynamic changes in neuronal structures and signaling for proper function. This review focuses on our current understandings of the functions of ESCRTs in neuronal morphology, synaptic plasticity, and neurodegenerative diseases.	ESCRTs;autophagy;dendrites;endocytosis;lysosome;neurodegenerative diseases
MicroRNA-22 Suppresses DNA Repair and Promotes Genomic Instability through Targeting of MDC1	J. H. Lee, et al.	2015	25627978	MDC1 is critical component of the DNA damage response (DDR) machinery and orchestrates the ensuring assembly of the DDR protein at the DNA damage sites, and therefore loss of MDC1 results in genomic instability and tumorigenicity. However, the molecular mechanisms controlling MDC1 expression are currently unknown. Here, we show that miR-22 inhibits MDC1 translation via direct binding to its 3' untranslated region, leading to impaired DNA damage repair and genomic instability. We demonstrated that activated Akt1 and senescence hinder DDR function of MDC1 by upregulating endogenous miR-22. After overexpression of constitutively active Akt1, homologous recombination was inhibited by miR-22-mediated MDC1 repression. In addition, during replicative senescence and stress-induced premature senescence, MDC1 was downregulated by upregulating miR-22 and thereby accumulating DNA damage. Our results demonstrate a central role of miR-22 in the physiologic regulation of MDC1-dependent DDR and suggest a molecular mechanism for how aberrant Akt1 activation and senescence lead to increased genomic instability, fostering an environment that promotes tumorigenesis.	Adolescent;Aged;Animals;Cell Aging;DNA Damage;DNA Repair;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Genomic Instability;HCT116 Cells;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Middle Aged;Nuclear Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/metabolism;RNA Interference;Trans-Activators/ genetics/metabolism;Young Adult
Replenishment of microRNA-188-5p restores the synaptic and cognitive deficits in 5XFAD Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease	K. Lee, et al.	2016	27708404	MicroRNAs have emerged as key factors in development, neurogenesis and synaptic functions in the central nervous system. In the present study, we investigated a pathophysiological significance of microRNA-188-5p (miR-188-5p) in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We found that oligomeric Abeta1-42 treatment diminished miR-188-5p expression in primary hippocampal neuron cultures and that miR-188-5p rescued the Abeta1-42-mediated synapse elimination and synaptic dysfunctions. Moreover, the impairments in cognitive function and synaptic transmission observed in 7-month-old five familial AD (5XFAD) transgenic mice, were ameliorated via viral-mediated expression of miR-188-5p. miR-188-5p expression was down-regulated in the brain tissues from AD patients and 5XFAD mice. The addition of miR-188-5p rescued the reduction in dendritic spine density in the primary hippocampal neurons treated with oligomeric Abeta1-42 and cultured from 5XFAD mice. The reduction in the frequency of mEPSCs was also restored by addition of miR-188-5p. The impairments in basal fEPSPs and cognition observed in 7-month-old 5XFAD mice were ameliorated via the viral-mediated expression of miR-188-5p in the hippocampus. Furthermore, we found that miR-188 expression is CREB-dependent. Taken together, our results suggest that dysregulation of miR-188-5p expression contributes to the pathogenesis of AD by inducing synaptic dysfunction and cognitive deficits associated with Abeta-mediated pathophysiology in the disease.	
microRNA for determining the age-related myogenic capabilities of skeletal muscle	K. P. Lee, et al.	2015	26521942	Skeletal muscle exhibits a loss of muscle mass and function with age. Decreased regenerative potential of muscle stem/progenitor cells is a major underlying cause of sarcopenia. We analyzed microRNAs (miRNA) that are differentially expressed in young and old myoblasts, to identify novel intrinsic factors that play a degenerative role in aged skeletal muscle. miR-431, one of decreasing miRNAs in old myoblasts, improved the myogenic differentiation when overexpressed in old myoblast, but suppressed their myogenic capability in knockdowned young myoblasts. We found that miR-431 directly binds to 3`untranslated regions (UTR) of Smad4 mRNA, and decreases its expression. Given that SMAD4 is one of the downstream effectors of TGF-beta, a well-known degenerative signaling pathway in myogenesis, the decreased miR-431 in old myoblast causes SMAD4 elevation, thus resulting in defective myogenesis. Exogenous expression of miR-431 greatly improved the muscle regeneration in the cardiotoxin-injured hindlimb muscle of old mice by reducing SMAD4 levels. Since the miR-431 seed sequence is conserved in human SMAD4 3'UTR, miR-431 regulates the myogenic capacity of human skeletal myoblasts in the same manner. Our results suggest that age-associated miR-431 is required for the maintenance of the myogenic capability in myoblasts, thus underscoring its potential as a therapeutic target to slow down muscle aging.	Age Factors;Animals;Cell Differentiation;Cell Line;Gene Expression Profiling;Mice;MicroRNAs/ analysis/metabolism;Muscle Development;Muscle, Skeletal/chemistry/cytology/ metabolism;Myoblasts/chemistry/ metabolism;Signal Transduction;Smad4 Protein/metabolism;Up-Regulation
miR-431 promotes differentiation and regeneration of old skeletal muscle by targeting Smad4	K. P. Lee, et al.	2015	26215566	The myogenic capacity of myoblasts decreases in skeletal muscle with age. In addition to environmental factors, intrinsic factors are important for maintaining the regenerative potential of muscle progenitor cells, but their identities are largely unknown. Here, comparative analysis of microRNA (miRNA) expression profiles in young and old myoblasts uncovered miR-431 as a novel miRNA showing markedly reduced abundance in aged myoblasts. Importantly, elevating miR-431 improved the myogenic capacity of old myoblasts, while inhibiting endogenous miR-431 lowered myogenesis. Bioinformatic and biochemical analyses revealed that miR-431 directly interacted with the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of Smad4 mRNA, which encodes one of the downstream effectors of TGF-beta signaling. In keeping with the low levels of miR-431 in old myoblasts, SMAD4 levels increased in this myoblast population. Interestingly, in an in vivo model of muscle regeneration following cardiotoxin injury, ectopic miR-431 injection greatly improved muscle regeneration and reduced SMAD4 levels. Consistent with the finding that the mouse miR-431 seed sequence in the Smad4 3' UTR is conserved in the human SMAD4 3' UTR, inhibition of miR-431 also repressed the myogenic capacity of human skeletal myoblasts. Taken together, our results suggest that the age-associated miR-431 plays a key role in maintaining the myogenic ability of skeletal muscle with age.	3' Untranslated Regions;Animals;Cell Aging;Cell Differentiation;Cell Line;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Humans;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Muscle Development/ genetics;Muscle, Skeletal/cytology/ physiology;Myoblasts/ cytology;Protein Binding;Regeneration/ genetics;Smad4 Protein/ genetics;Smad4;differentiation;miR-431;muscle aging;myoblast;regeneration
nc886, a non-coding RNA of anti-proliferative role, is suppressed by CpG DNA methylation in human gastric cancer	K. S. Lee, et al.	2014	25003254	nc886 is a 101 nucleotide long non-coding RNA that has been designated as a precursor microRNA or a vault RNA based upon it sequence. nc886 has also been suggested to be a tumor suppressor, mainly inferred by its expression pattern as well as its genomic location at human chromosome 5q31, a locus for a tumor suppressor gene(s). However, legitimate data based on nc886's correct identity for its functional cellular roles as a tumor suppressor have not been provided yet. Here we have investigated nc886 in gastric cancer where its expression is suppressed due to CpG DNA hypermethylation at its promoter region in a cohort of paired tumor/normal tissues from 88 gastric cancer patients. CpG hypermethylation of nc886 and thus its diminished expression is significantly associated with poor survival in these cancer patients. nc886 inhibits cell proliferation when ectopically expressed in gastric cancer cells. nc886's tumor suppressive role is corroborated by the induction of well-known oncogenes such as FOS, NF-kappaB, and MYC upon its knockdown. All these activities of nc886 are undoubtedly independent of mature microRNA or vault RNA. Our data indicate that nc886 is a putative tumor suppressor and could potentially be used as a diagnostic marker in gastric cancer.	Cell Growth Processes/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;CpG Islands;DNA Methylation;Humans;RNA, Untranslated/ genetics;Stomach Neoplasms/ genetics/pathology;Transfection
Analysis of the microRNA expression profile of normal human dermal papilla cells treated with 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone	M. J. Lee, et al.	2015	25778683	Clinical evidence has demonstrated that the accumulation of 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT) in dermal papilla cells (DPCs) is implicated in androgenetic alopecia. Whether this accumulation in DHT may have direct cellular effects leading to androgenetic alopecia remains to be elucidated. The present study aimed to determine whether DHT affects cell growth, cell cycle arrest, cell death, senescence and the induction of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and whether these effects are mediated by microRNA (miRNA)-dependent mechanisms. The cell viability and cell cycle were determined, levels of ROS were examined and senescence-associated beta-galactosidase assays were performed in normal human DPCs (nHDPCs). Furthermore, miRNA expression profiling was performed using an miRNA microarray to determine whether changes in the expression levels of miRNA were associated with the cellular effects of DHT. The results revealed that DHT decreased cell growth by inducing cell death and G2 cell cycle arrest, and by increasing the production of ROS and senescence in the nHDPCs. In addition, 55 miRNAs were upregulated and 6 miRNAs were downregulated in the DHT-treated nHDPCs. Bioinformatic analysis demonstrated that the putative target genes of these upregulated and downregulated miRNAs were involved in cell growth, cell cycle arrest, cell death, senescence and the production of ROS. Specifically, the target genes of five highly upregulated and downregulated miRNAs were identified and were associated with the aforementioned effects of DHT. These results demonstrated that the expression of miRNA was altered in the DHT-treated nHDPCs and suggest the potential mechanisms of DHT-induced cell growth repression, cell cycle arrest, cell death, senescence and induction of ROS.	Apoptosis/drug effects;Cell Aging/drug effects;Cell Cycle Checkpoints/drug effects;Cell Line;Cell Proliferation/drug effects;Cell Survival/drug effects;Dermis/cytology/ drug effects/metabolism;Dihydrotestosterone/ pharmacology;Gene Expression Regulation/ drug effects;Genes, Reporter;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Reactive Oxygen Species/agonists/metabolism;Signal Transduction;beta-Galactosidase/genetics/metabolism
Implication of microRNA regulation in para-phenylenediamine-induced cell death and senescence in normal human hair dermal papilla cells	O. K. Lee, et al.	2015	25776079	Para-phenylenediamine (PPD) is a major component of hair coloring and black henna products. Although it has been largely demonstrated that PPD induces allergic reactions and increases the risk of tumors in the kidney, liver, thyroid gland and urinary bladder, the effect on dermal papilla cells remains to be elucidated. Therefore, the current study evaluated the effects of PPD on growth, cell death and senescence using cell-based assays and microRNA (miRNA) microarray in normal human hair dermal papilla cells (nHHDPCs). Cell viability and cell cycle analyses demonstrated that PPD exhibited a significant cytotoxic effect on nHHDPCs through inducing cell death and G2 phase cell cycle arrest in a dose-dependent manner. It was additionally observed that treatment of nHHDPCs with PPD induced cellular senescence by promoting cellular oxidative stress. In addition, the results of the current study indicated that these PPD-mediated effects were involved in the alteration of miRNA expression profiles. Treatment of nHHDPCs with PPD altered the expression levels of 74 miRNAs by >/= 2-fold (16 upregulated and 58 downregulated miRNAs). Further bioinformatics analysis determined that these identified miRNA target genes were likely to be involved in cell growth, cell cycle arrest, cell death, senescence and the induction of oxidative stress. In conclusion, the observations of the current study suggested that PPD was able to induce several cytotoxic effects through alteration of miRNA expression levels in nHHDPCs.	Cell Aging/drug effects;Cell Cycle Checkpoints/drug effects;Cell Death/drug effects;Cell Proliferation/drug effects;Cell Survival/drug effects;Cells, Cultured;Cytotoxins/ toxicity;Dose-Response Relationship, Drug;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Hair Dyes/ toxicity;Hair Follicle/cytology/ drug effects/metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Annotation;Oxidative Stress/drug effects;Phenylenediamines/ toxicity;Signal Transduction
Histone deacetylase regulates high mobility group A2-targeting microRNAs in human cord blood-derived multipotent stem cell aging	S. Lee, et al.	2011	20652617	Cellular senescence involves a reduction in adult stem cell self-renewal, and epigenetic regulation of gene expression is one of the main underlying mechanisms. Here, we observed that the cellular senescence of human umbilical cord blood-derived multipotent stem cells (hUCB-MSCs) caused by inhibition of histone deacetylase (HDAC) activity leads to down-regulation of high mobility group A2 (HMGA2) and, on the contrary, to up-regulation of p16(INK)(4)(A), p21(CIP)(1)(/WAF)(1) and p27(KIP)(1). We found that let-7a1, let-7d, let-7f1, miR-23a, miR-26a and miR-30a were increased during replicative and HDAC inhibitor-mediated senescence of hUCB-MSCs by microRNA microarray and real-time quantitative PCR. Furthermore, the configurations of chromatins beading on these miRNAs were prone to transcriptional activation during HDAC inhibitor-mediated senescence. We confirmed that miR-23a, miR-26a and miR-30a inhibit HMGA2 to accelerate the progress of senescence. These findings suggest that HDACs may play important roles in cellular senescence by regulating the expression of miRNAs that target HMGA2 through histone modification.	Adipose Tissue/cytology;Adult;Adult Stem Cells/cytology/ metabolism;Cell Aging/ physiology;Cell Proliferation;Enzyme Activation/drug effects;Epigenomics;Female;Fetal Blood/cytology/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;HMGA2 Protein/genetics/metabolism;High Mobility Group Proteins/metabolism;Histone Deacetylase Inhibitors/pharmacology;Histone Deacetylases/genetics/metabolism;Humans;MAP Kinase Signaling System/drug effects;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism/pharmacology;Microarray Analysis;Multipotent Stem Cells/cytology/ metabolism;Polymerase Chain Reaction;Valproic Acid/pharmacology
Toll-like receptor 9-mediated cytosolic phospholipase A2 activation regulates expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase	S. H. Lee, et al.	2007	18273445	Although CpG containing DNA is an important regulator of innate immune responses via toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9), excessive activation of this receptor is detrimental to the host. Here, we show that cytosolic phospholipase A(2) (cPLA(2)) activation is important for TLR9-mediated inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) expression. Activation of TLR9 signaling by CpG induces iNOS expression and NO production. Inhibition of TLR9 blocked the iNOS expression and NO production. The CpG also stimulates cPLA(2)-hydrolyzed arachidonic acid (AA) release. Inhibition of cPLA(2) activity by inhibitor attenuated the iNOS expression by CpG response. Additionally, knockdown of cPLA(2) protein by miRNA also suppressed the CpG-induced iNOS expression. Furthermore, the CpG rapidly phosphorylates three MAPKs and Akt. A potent inhibitor for p38 MAPK or Akt blocked the CpG-induced AA release and iNOS expression. These results suggest that TLR9 activation stimulates cPLA(2) activity via p38 or Akt pathways and mediates iNOS expression.	Animals;Cell Line;Enzyme Activation;Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic;Group IV Phospholipases A2/genetics/ metabolism;Mice;Nitric Oxide/biosynthesis;Nitric Oxide Synthase Type II/genetics/ metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Toll-Like Receptor 9/genetics/ metabolism;p38 Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases/metabolism
Altered microRNA regulation in Huntington's disease models	S. T. Lee, et al.	2011	21035445	Huntington's disease (HD) is a genetic neurodegenerative disease caused by abnormal CAG expansion. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short RNA molecules regulating gene expression, and are implicated in a variety of diseases including HD. However, the profiles and regulation of miRNAs in HD are not fully understood. Here, we analyzed the miRNA expression and miRNA regulators in two transgenic models of HD, YAC128 and R6/2 mice, and in a 3-nitropropionic acid (3NP)-induced striatal degeneration rat model. After characterizing the phenotypes by behavioral tests and histological analyses, we profiled striatal miRNAs using a miRNA microarray and we measured the key molecules involved in miRNA biogenesis and function. YAC128 mice showed upregulation-dominant miRNA expressions at 5 months and downregulation-dominant expressions at 12 months. Concomitantly, the expressions of Drosha-DGCR8, Exportin-5, and Dcp1 were increased at 5months, and the expression of Dicer was decreased at 12 months. In 10-week-old R6/2 mice, downregulation was dominant in the miRNA expressions and the level of Drosha decreased concomitantly. Nine miRNAs (miR-22, miR-29c, miR-128, miR-132, miR-138, miR-218, miR-222, miR-344, and miR-674*) were commonly down-regulated in both the 12-month-old YAC128 and 10-week-old R6/2 mice. Meanwhile, 3NP rats showed dynamic changes in the miRNA profiles during disease development and a few miRNAs with altered expression. Our results show that transgenic HD mice have abnormal miRNA biogenesis. This information should aid in future studies on therapeutic application of miRNAs in HD.	Animals;Chromosomes, Artificial, Yeast/genetics;Disease Models, Animal;Down-Regulation/drug effects/genetics/ physiology;Huntingtin Protein;Huntington Disease/chemically induced/ genetics/ metabolism/ physiopathology;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins;Nitro Compounds/toxicity;Nuclear Proteins;Phenotype;Propionates/toxicity;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Rats;Trinucleotide Repeats/genetics
Altered expression of miR-202 in cerebellum of multiple-system atrophy	S. T. Lee, et al.	2015	24981430	Cerebellar degeneration is a devastating manifestation of cerebellar-type multiple-system atrophy (MSA), a rapidly progressive neurodegenerative disease, and the exact pathogenesis is unknown. Here, we examined the expression of micro-RNAs (miRNAs), which are short noncoding RNAs, in the cerebellum of MSA and the key target genes. miRNA microarray found 11 miRNAs with significantly different expression in MSA cerebellum compared to cerebellum from age-, sex-, and postmortem interval-matched controls. miR-202 was the most upregulated in the MSA samples. In silico analysis, followed by target gene luciferase assay, in vitro transfection, and Western blotting in human samples showed that miR-202 downregulates Oct1 (Pou2f1), a transcription factor expressed in cerebellar Purkinje cells. Transfection of Neuro-2a cells with miR-202 enhanced oxidative stress-induced cell death, and an antagomir to miR-202 inhibited this effect of miR-202. This study provides novel insight into the role of miRNA in cerebellar degeneration and suggests that miR-202 is a key miRNA mediating the pathogenesis of MSA.	Aged;Animals;Base Sequence;Cell Death;Cerebellum/ metabolism/ pathology;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;Molecular Sequence Data;Multiple System Atrophy/ genetics;Nerve Degeneration/genetics/pathology;Octamer Transcription Factor-1/metabolism;Oxidative Stress/genetics;Up-Regulation/genetics
miR-206 regulates brain-derived neurotrophic factor in Alzheimer disease model	S. T. Lee, et al.	2012	22926857	OBJECTIVE: Alzheimer disease (AD) brains are deficient in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which regulates synaptic plasticity and memory. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are approximately 22-nucleotide small noncoding RNAs that control a variety of physiological and disease processes. Here, we show that miR-206 regulates BDNF and memory function in AD mice. METHODS: Expression of miRNAs was analyzed in Tg2576 AD transgenic mice and human AD brain samples. Regulation of BDNF by a selected miRNA was validated by in silico prediction, target gene luciferase assay, and dendritic spine responses in neurons. AM206, a neutralizing inhibitor of miR-206 (antagomir), was injected into the third ventricle of Tg2576 mice, after which memory function, synaptogenesis, neurogenesis, and target gene expression were assessed. For noninvasive delivery, antagomirs were administered intranasally. RESULTS: The brains of Tg2576 mice and the temporal cortex of human AD brains had increased levels of miR-206. This miRNA targeted BDNF transcripts, and AM206 prevented the detrimental effects of amyloid-beta42 on BDNF and dendritic spine degeneration in Tg2576 neurons. Injection of AM206 into the cerebral ventricles of AD mice increased the brain levels of BDNF and improved their memory function. In parallel, AM206 enhanced the hippocampal synaptic density and neurogenesis. Furthermore, intranasally administered AM206 also reached the brain and increased BDNF levels and memory function in AD mice. INTERPRETATION: Our findings demonstrate a novel miRNA-dependent regulation of BDNF in AD and suggest possible therapeutic approaches, such as noninvasive intranasal delivery of AM206.	Alzheimer Disease/drug therapy/genetics/ metabolism/ pathology;Animals;Benzylamines/therapeutic use;Brain/drug effects/ metabolism/pathology;Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor/ metabolism;Dendritic Spines/drug effects/pathology;Disease Models, Animal;Fear/drug effects/psychology;Gene Expression Regulation/genetics;Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein/metabolism;Humans;Learning/drug effects;Maze Learning/drug effects;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Microarray Analysis;Neurogenesis/drug effects;Niacin/analogs & derivatives/therapeutic use;Oligodeoxyribonucleotides, Antisense/therapeutic use;Statistics, Nonparametric;Synaptophysin/metabolism
Dependence of p53-deficient cells on the DHX9 DExH-box helicase	T. Lee and J. Pelletier	2017	28427210	DHX9 is a DExH-box helicase family member with key regulatory roles in a broad range of cellular processes. It participates at multiple levels of gene regulation, including DNA replication, transcription, translation, RNA transport, and microRNA processing. It has been implicated in tumorigenesis and recent evidence suggests that it may be a promising chemotherapeutic target. Previous studies have determined that DHX9 suppression elicits an apoptotic or senescence response by activating p53 signaling. Here, we show that DHX9 inhibition can also have deleterious effects in cells lacking functional p53. Loss of DHX9 led to increased cell death in p53-deficient mouse lymphomas and HCT116 human colon cancer cells, and G0/G1 cell cycle arrest in p53-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts. Analysis of mRNA levels for p53 transcriptional targets showed that a subset of p53 targets in the p53-null lymphomas and HCT116 cells were activated despite the absence of functional p53. This implies an alternative pathway of DHX9-mediated activation of cell death and cell cycle arrest in p53-deficient cells and supports the feasibility of targeting DHX9 in p53-deficient tumors.	Dhx9;apoptosis;drug target;helicase;p53
Upregulation of miR-760 and miR-186 is associated with replicative senescence in human lung fibroblast cells	Y. H. Lee, et al.	2014	25139266	We have previously shown that microRNAs (miRNAs) miR-760, miR-186, miR-337-3p, and miR-216b stimulate premature senescence through protein kinase CK2 (CK2) down-regulation in human colon cancer cells. Here, we examined whether these four miRNAs are involved in the replicative senescence of human lung fibroblast IMR-90 cells. miR-760 and miR-186 were significantly upregulated in replicatively senescent IMR-90 cells, and their joint action with both miR-337-3p and miR-216b was necessary for efficient downregulation of the alpha subunit of CK2 (CK2alpha) in IMR-90 cells. A mutation in any of the four miRNA-binding sequences within the CK2alpha 3'-untranslated region (UTR) indicated that all four miRNAs should simultaneously bind to the target sites for CK2alpha downregulation. The four miRNAs increased senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-gal) staining, p53 and p21(Cip1/WAF1) expression, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in proliferating IMR-90 cells. CK2alpha over-expression almost abolished this event. Taken together, the present results suggest that the upregulation of miR-760 and miR-186 is associated with replicative senescence in human lung fibroblast cells, and their cooperative action with miR-337-3p and miR-216b may induce replicative senescence through CK2alpha downregulation-dependent ROS generation.	3' Untranslated Regions;Binding Sites;Casein Kinase II/genetics/metabolism;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Line;Cell Proliferation;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/genetics/metabolism;Fibroblasts/cytology/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Lung/cytology/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Mutation;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/metabolism;human lung fibroblast;miRNA;protein kinase CK2;reactive oxygen species;replicative senescence
An unconventional role for miRNA: let-7 activates Toll-like receptor 7 and causes neurodegeneration	S. M. Lehmann, et al.	2012	22610069	Activation of innate immune receptors by host-derived factors exacerbates CNS damage, but the identity of these factors remains elusive. We uncovered an unconventional role for the microRNA let-7, a highly abundant regulator of gene expression in the CNS, in which extracellular let-7 activates the RNA-sensing Toll-like receptor (TLR) 7 and induces neurodegeneration through neuronal TLR7. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from individuals with Alzheimer's disease contains increased amounts of let-7b, and extracellular introduction of let-7b into the CSF of wild-type mice by intrathecal injection resulted in neurodegeneration. Mice lacking TLR7 were resistant to this neurodegenerative effect, but this susceptibility to let-7 was restored in neurons transfected with TLR7 by intrauterine electroporation of Tlr7(-/-) fetuses. Our results suggest that microRNAs can function as signaling molecules and identify TLR7 as an essential element in a pathway that contributes to the spread of CNS damage.	Alzheimer Disease/ cerebrospinal fluid/genetics;Animals;Apoptosis/physiology;Brain/metabolism;Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Immunohistochemistry;In Situ Hybridization;Membrane Glycoproteins/ metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Microscopy, Confocal;Nerve Degeneration/ metabolism;Neurons/ metabolism;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction/physiology;Toll-Like Receptor 7/ metabolism
Post-developmental microRNA expression is required for normal physiology, and regulates aging in parallel to insulin/IGF-1 signaling in C. elegans	N. J. Lehrbach, et al.	2012	23097426	Regulation of gene expression by microRNAs (miRNAs) is essential for normal development, but the roles of miRNAs in the physiology of adult animals are poorly understood. We have isolated a conditional allele of DGCR8/pash-1, which allows reversible and rapid inactivation of miRNA synthesis in vivo in Caenorhabditis elegans. This is a powerful new tool that allows dissection of post-developmental miRNA functions. We demonstrate that continuous synthesis of miRNAs is dispensable for cellular viability but critical for the physiology of adult animals. Loss of miRNA synthesis in the adult reduces lifespan and results in rapid aging. The insulin/IGF-1 signaling pathway is a critical determinant of lifespan, and is modulated by miRNAs. We find that although miRNA expression is required for some mechanisms of lifespan extension, it is not essential for the longevity of animals lacking insulin/IGF-1 signaling. Further, misregulated insulin/IGF-1 signaling cannot account for the reduced lifespan caused by disruption of miRNA synthesis. We show that miRNAs act in parallel with insulin/IGF-1 signaling to regulate a shared set of downstream genes important for physiological processes that determine lifespan. We conclude that coordinated transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression promotes longevity.	Aging/genetics/metabolism;Amino Acid Sequence;Animals;Animals, Genetically Modified;Caenorhabditis elegans/ genetics/growth & development/ metabolism;Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins/chemistry/genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Genes, Helminth;Insulin/metabolism;Insulin-Like Growth Factor I/metabolism;Longevity/genetics/physiology;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Mutation;Protein Structure, Tertiary;RNA Stability;RNA, Helminth/ genetics/ metabolism;Receptor, Insulin/genetics/metabolism;Sequence Homology, Amino Acid;Signal Transduction;Temperature
The regulatory role of Dicer in folliculogenesis in mice	L. Lei, et al.	2010	19799966	Dicer is the ribonuclease III for synthesis of mature functional microRNAs (miRNAs), which play an important role in regulating cell development. In the mouse ovary, the Dicer1 protein was expressed in both oocyte and granulosa cells of the follicle. In the present study, the role of miRNAs in mouse ovarian development was explored by using Dicer1 conditional knockout (cKO) mouse ovarian tissue (Amhr2 Cre/-; Dicer flox/flox), in which Dicer1 is deleted specifically in follicular granulosa cells. The morphology and gene expression profile of cKO and wild type (WT) mouse ovaries at various stages of development (day 4, day 8, 8 weeks and 8 months) were examined. Comparative analysis of the follicle number indicated that conditional inactivation of Dicer1 in the follicular granulosa cells led to an increased primordial follicle pool endowment, accelerated early follicle recruitment and more degenerate follicles in the cKO ovaries. In addition, significant differences were noted in the expression of some follicle development-related genes between cKO and WT mouse ovaries, such as Amh, Inhba, Cyp17a1, Cyp19a1, Zps, Gdf9 and Bmp15, suggesting the function of miRNAs in regulating gene expression is time- and gene-dependent. With the Dicer1 inactivation, mmu-mir-503, a miRNA that is more abundant in mouse ovary than in other tissues, was down-regulated significantly. Meanwhile, the expression of mmu-mir-503 decreased notably with follicle development in the gonadotropin-primed mouse ovary. Up-regulation of mmu-mir-503 in primary cultured granulosa cells resulted in the decreased expression of both the target gene and non-target gene at the transcriptional level, which involve genes related to granulosa cell proliferation and luteinization. In conclusion, Dicer1 plays important roles in follicular cell development through the differential regulation of gene expression.	Aging/physiology;Animals;Cell Line;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/genetics/ metabolism;Endoribonucleases/genetics/ metabolism;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Granulosa Cells/cytology/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Oocytes/cytology/metabolism;Ovarian Follicle/cytology/pathology/ physiology;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics/metabolism;Ribonuclease III
Downregulated miR-29c correlates with increased BACE1 expression in sporadic Alzheimer's disease	X. Lei, et al.	2015	25973041	BACKGROUND: Beta-site Amyloid precursor protein Cleaving Enzyme 1 (BACE1) is conceived as a potential target for therapies against Alzheimer disease (AD) which is characterized by the accumulation of plaques formed of short beta-amyloid (APPbeta) peptides. Recently, such microRNAs, as miR-29a, miR-29b-1 have been shown to correlate with abnormally high levels of BACE1 and APPbeta in sporadic AD. METHODS: In order to confirm whether miR-29c correlates with the BACE1 upregulation in sporadic AD, we firstly evaluated the expression of miR-29c and BACE1, the APPbeta accumulation in sporadic AD brain tissues and analyzed the correlation of miR-29c with BACE1. Then we determined the regulation of miR-29c in human heuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells on the BACE1 expression and APPbeta accumulation. And finally we determined the targeting to 3' UTR of BACE1 by miR-29c by a luciferase reporter. RESULTS: It was demonstrated that miR-29c was downregulated in sporadic AD brains, in an association with an upregulation of BACE1 in both mRNA and protein level of BACE1, and also an elevated APPbeta accumulation. And the manipulated high level of miR-29c with miR-29c mimics transfection significantly reduced the protein level of BACE1 and APPbeta accumulation in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. Further luciferase reporter assay demonstrated that miR-29c targets the 3' UTR of BACE1 and downregulated the BACE1 in HEK293 cells. CONCLUSION: Present study indicated that miR-29c was downregulated in sporadic AD brains, and it targeted the 3' UTR of BACE1, reduced the BACE1 expression, and downregulated the APPbeta accumulation in vitro.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/ biosynthesis;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ metabolism;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/ biosynthesis;Blotting, Western;Down-Regulation;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/ physiology;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Transfection;Up-Regulation;APPbeta accumulation;Alzheimer's disease;Bace1;miR-29c
A blood based 12-miRNA signature of Alzheimer disease patients	P. Leidinger, et al.	2013	23895045	BACKGROUND: Alzheimer disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia but the identification of reliable, early and non-invasive biomarkers remains a major challenge. We present a novel miRNA-based signature for detecting AD from blood samples. RESULTS: We apply next-generation sequencing to miRNAs from blood samples of 48 AD patients and 22 unaffected controls, yielding a total of 140 unique mature miRNAs with significantly changed expression levels. Of these, 82 have higher and 58 have lower abundance in AD patient samples. We selected a panel of 12 miRNAs for an RT-qPCR analysis on a larger cohort of 202 samples, comprising not only AD patients and healthy controls but also patients with other CNS illnesses. These included mild cognitive impairment, which is assumed to represent a transitional period before the development of AD, as well as multiple sclerosis, Parkinson disease, major depression, bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. miRNA target enrichment analysis of the selected 12 miRNAs indicates an involvement of miRNAs in nervous system development, neuron projection, neuron projection development and neuron projection morphogenesis. Using this 12-miRNA signature, we differentiate between AD and controls with an accuracy of 93%, a specificity of 95% and a sensitivity of 92%. The differentiation of AD from other neurological diseases is possible with accuracies between 74% and 78%. The differentiation of the other CNS disorders from controls yields even higher accuracies. CONCLUSIONS: The data indicate that deregulated miRNAs in blood might be used as biomarkers in the diagnosis of AD or other neurological diseases.	Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ blood/ genetics;Biomarkers/blood;Brain/metabolism;Case-Control Studies;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Humans;MicroRNAs/ blood/ genetics;Middle Aged;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Reproducibility of Results
Genetic variation in FGF20 modulates hippocampal biology	H. Lemaitre, et al.	2010	20427658	We explored the effect of single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the fibroblast growth factor 20 gene (FGF20) associated with risk for Parkinson's disease on brain structure and function in a large sample of healthy young-adult human subjects and also in elderly subjects to look at the interaction between genetic variations and age (N = 237; 116 men; 18-87 years). We analyzed high-resolution anatomical magnetic resonance images using voxel-based morphometry, a quantitative neuroanatomical technique. We also measured FGF20 mRNA expression in postmortem human brain tissue to determine the molecular correlates of these SNPs (N = 108; 72 men; 18-74 years). We found that the T allele carriers of rs12720208 in the 3'-untranslated region had relatively larger hippocampal volume (p = 0.0059) and diminished verbal episodic memory (p = 0.048) and showed steeper decreases of hippocampal volume with normal aging (p = 0.026). In postmortem brain, T allele carriers had greater expression of hippocampal FGF20 mRNA (p = 0.037), consistent with a previously characterized microRNA mechanism. The C allele matches a predicted miR-433 microRNA binding domain, whereas the T allele disrupts it, resulting in higher FGF20 protein translation. The strong FGF20 genetic effects in hippocampus are presumably mediated by activation of the FGFR1 (FGF receptor 1), which is expressed in mammalian brain most abundantly in the hippocampus. These associations, from mRNA expression to brain morphology to cognition and an interaction with aging, confirm a role of FGF20 in human brain structure and function during development and aging.	Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ metabolism/ pathology;Alleles;Cognition/physiology;Female;Fibroblast Growth Factors/ genetics/ metabolism;Genotype;Hippocampus/ metabolism/ pathology;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Middle Aged;Organ Size;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Receptor, Fibroblast Growth Factor, Type 1/metabolism;Young Adult
MicroRNA-191 triggers keratinocytes senescence by SATB1 and CDK6 downregulation	A. M. Lena, et al.	2012	22683624	Keratinocyte replicative senescence has an important role in time-dependent changes of the epidermis, a tissue with high turnover. Senescence encompasses growth arrest during which cells remain metabolically active but acquire a typical enlarged, vacuolar and flattened morphology. It is also accompanied by the expression of endogenous senescence-associated-beta-galactosidase and specific gene expression profiles. MicroRNAs levels have been shown to be modulated during keratinocytes senescence, playing key roles in inhibiting proliferation and in the acquisition of senescent markers. Here, we identify miR-191 as an anti-proliferative and replicative senescence-associated miRNA in primary human keratinocytes. Its overexpression is sufficient per se to induce senescence, as evaluated by induction of several senescence-associated markers. We show that SATB1 and CDK6 3'UTRs are two miR-191 direct targets involved in this pathway. Cdk6 and Satb1 protein levels decrease during keratinocytes replicative senescence and their silencing by siRNA is able to induce a G1 block in cell cycle, accompanied by an increase in senescence-associated markers.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Base Sequence;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Cycle/genetics;Cell Line;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 6/ genetics;Down-Regulation;Gene Silencing;Humans;Keratinocytes/ physiology;Matrix Attachment Region Binding Proteins/ genetics;MicroRNAs/genetics/ physiology;Molecular Sequence Data
MicroRNA fingerprints in juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML) identified miR-150-5p as a tumor suppressor and potential target for treatment	P. P. Leoncini, et al.	2016	27447965	Juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML) is an aggressive leukemia of early childhood characterized by aberrant proliferation of myelomonocytic cells and hypersensitivity to GM-CSF stimulation. Mutually exclusive mutations in the RAS/ERK pathway genes such as PTPN11, NRAS, KRAS, CBL, or NF1 are found in ~90% of the cases. These mutations give rise to disease at least in part by activating STAT5 through phosphorylation and by promoting cell growth. MicroRNAs (miRs) are small non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression, which are often deregulated in leukemia. However, little is known about their role in JMML. Here, we report distinctive miR expression signatures associated with the molecular subgroups of JMML. Among the downregulated miRs in JMML, miR-150-5p was found to target STAT5b, a gene which is often over-activated in JMML, and contributes to the characteristic aberrant signaling of this disorder. Moreover, loss of miR-150-5p and upregulation of STAT5b expression were also identified in a murine model of JMML. Ectopic overexpression of miR-150-5p in mononuclear cells from three JMML patients significantly decreased cell proliferation. Altogether, our data indicate that miR expression is deregulated in JMML and may play a role in the pathogenesis of this disorder by modulating key effectors of cytokine receptor pathways.	Gm-csf;Jmml;STAT5b;miR-150;microRNA
DASHR: database of small human noncoding RNAs	Y. Y. Leung, et al.	2016	26553799	Small non-coding RNAs (sncRNAs) are highly abundant RNAs, typically <100 nucleotides long, that act as key regulators of diverse cellular processes. Although thousands of sncRNA genes are known to exist in the human genome, no single database provides searchable, unified annotation, and expression information for full sncRNA transcripts and mature RNA products derived from these larger RNAs. Here, we present the Database of small human noncoding RNAs (DASHR). DASHR contains the most comprehensive information to date on human sncRNA genes and mature sncRNA products. DASHR provides a simple user interface for researchers to view sequence and secondary structure, compare expression levels, and evidence of specific processing across all sncRNA genes and mature sncRNA products in various human tissues. DASHR annotation and expression data covers all major classes of sncRNAs including microRNAs (miRNAs), Piwi-interacting (piRNAs), small nuclear, nucleolar, cytoplasmic (sn-, sno-, scRNAs, respectively), transfer (tRNAs), and ribosomal RNAs (rRNAs). Currently, DASHR (v1.0) integrates 187 smRNA high-throughput sequencing (smRNA-seq) datasets with over 2.5 billion reads and annotation data from multiple public sources. DASHR contains annotations for approximately 48,000 human sncRNA genes and mature sncRNA products, 82% of which are expressed in one or more of the curated tissues. DASHR is available at http://lisanwanglab.org/DASHR.	Databases, Nucleic Acid;Humans;Molecular Sequence Annotation;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional;RNA, Small Untranslated/chemistry/genetics/ metabolism
Increased expression of H19/miR-675 is associated with a low fat-free mass index in patients with COPD	A. Lewis, et al.	2016	27239417	BACKGROUND: Loss of muscle mass and strength is a significant comorbidity in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) that limits their quality of life and has prognostic implications but does not affect everyone equally. To identify mechanisms that may contribute to the susceptibility to a low muscle mass, we investigated microRNA (miRNA) expression, methylation status, and regeneration in quadriceps muscle from COPD patients and the effect of miRNAs on myoblast proliferation in vitro. The relationships of miRNA expression with muscle mass and strength was also determined in a group of healthy older men. METHODS: We identified miRNAs associated with a low fat-free mass (FFM) phenotype in a small group of patients with COPD using a PCR screen of 750 miRNAs. The expression of two differentially expressed miRNAs (miR-675 and miR-519a) was determined in an expanded group of COPD patients and their associations with FFM and strength identified. The association of these miRNAs with FFM and strength was also explored in a group of healthy community-dwelling older men. As the expression of the miRNAs associated with FFM could be regulated by methylation, the relative methylation of the H19 ICR was determined. Furthermore, the proportion of myofibres with centralized nuclei, as a marker of muscle regeneration, in the muscle of COPD patients was identified by immunofluorescence. RESULTS: Imprinted miRNAs (miR-675 and from a cluster, C19MC which includes miR-519a) were differentially expressed in the quadriceps of patients with a low fat-free mass index (FFMI) compared to those with a normal FFMI. In larger cohorts, miR-675 and its host gene (H19) were higher in patients with a low FFMI and strength. The association of miR-519a expression with FFMI was present in male patients with severe COPD. Similar associations of miR expression with lean mass and strength were not observed in healthy community dwelling older men participating in the Hertfordshire Sarcopenia Study. Relative methylation of the H19 ICR was reduced in COPD patients with muscle weakness but was not associated with FFM. In vitro, miR-675 inhibited myoblast proliferation and patients with a low FFMI had fewer centralized nuclei suggesting miR-675 represses regeneration. CONCLUSIONS: The data suggest that increased expression of miR-675/H19 and altered methylation of the H19 imprinting control region are associated with a low FFMI in patients with COPD but not in healthy community dwelling older men suggesting that epigenetic control of this loci may contribute to a susceptibility to a low FFMI.	Cell proliferation;MiRNA;Regeneration;Skeletal muscle
MiR-26a promotes neurite outgrowth by repressing PTEN expression	B. Li and H. Sun	2013	23783805	A multitude of studies have reported that microRNAs (miRNAs) are important in neuronal development. As a key regulator altering the expression of certain mRNAs, miR-26a has been demonstrated to play a role in the central nervous system (CNS). In the current study, the function of miR-26a in neuronal development was investigated. The overexpression of miR-26a was hypothesized to significantly enhance synaptic plasticity and regulate neuronal morphogenesis. The number and distribution of neurites was markedly increased by miR-26a. In addition, inhibition of miR-26a function attenuated neuronal outgrowth. Furthermore, phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) was identified as a direct target of miR-26a in this process via a luciferase reporter assay. The growth of neurites was consistently suppressed by PTEN overexpression. Therefore, our study demonstrated that miR-26a promoted neurite outgrowth via the suppression of PTEN expression, indicating that miR-26a is important in neuronal development and morphogenesis. miR-26a has the potential to serve as a therapeutic target for patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD).	3' Untranslated Regions;Animals;Animals, Newborn;Gene Expression;Gene Expression Regulation;Male;MicroRNAs/chemistry/ genetics/metabolism;Neurites/ metabolism;Neurons/metabolism;PTEN Phosphohydrolase/ genetics/metabolism;RNA Interference;Rats
MicroRNA-188 regulates age-related switch between osteoblast and adipocyte differentiation	C. J. Li, et al.	2015	25751060	Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) exhibit an age-dependent reduction in osteogenesis that is accompanied by an increased propensity toward adipocyte differentiation. This switch increases adipocyte numbers and decreases the number of osteoblasts, contributing to age-related bone loss. Here, we found that the level of microRNA-188 (miR-188) is markedly higher in BMSCs from aged compared with young mice and humans. Compared with control mice, animals lacking miR-188 showed a substantial reduction of age-associated bone loss and fat accumulation in bone marrow. Conversely, mice with transgenic overexpression of miR-188 in osterix+ osteoprogenitors had greater age-associated bone loss and fat accumulation in bone marrow relative to WT mice. Moreover, using an aptamer delivery system, we found that BMSC-specific overexpression of miR-188 in mice reduced bone formation and increased bone marrow fat accumulation. We identified histone deacetylase 9 (HDAC9) and RPTOR-independent companion of MTOR complex 2 (RICTOR) as the direct targets of miR-188. Notably, BMSC-specific inhibition of miR-188 by intra-bone marrow injection of aptamer-antagomiR-188 increased bone formation and decreased bone marrow fat accumulation in aged mice. Together, our results indicate that miR-188 is a key regulator of the age-related switch between osteogenesis and adipogenesis of BMSCs and may represent a potential therapeutic target for age-related bone loss.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Adipocytes/ cytology;Adipose Tissue/cytology;Aging/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Aptamers, Nucleotide/pharmacology;Base Sequence;Bone Density/genetics/physiology;Bone Marrow Cells/ cytology/metabolism;Bone Remodeling/physiology;Carrier Proteins/antagonists & inhibitors;Cell Differentiation/genetics;Histone Deacetylases;Humans;Mice;Mice, Knockout;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/analysis/genetics/ physiology;Molecular Sequence Data;Osteoblasts/ cytology;Osteocalcin/analysis;Osteogenesis/genetics/ physiology;Osteoporosis/genetics/physiopathology/ prevention & control;Repressor Proteins/antagonists & inhibitors;Transcription Factors/physiology
Investigating the specific core genetic-and-epigenetic networks of cellular mechanisms involved in human aging in peripheral blood mononuclear cells	C. W. Li, et al.	2016	26895224	Aging is an inevitable part of life for humans, and slowing down the aging process has become a main focus of human endeavor. Here, we applied a systems biology approach to construct protein-protein interaction networks, gene regulatory networks, and epigenetic networks, i.e. genetic and epigenetic networks (GENs), of elderly individuals and young controls. We then compared these GENs to extract aging mechanisms using microarray data in peripheral blood mononuclear cells, microRNA (miRNA) data, and database mining. The core GENs of elderly individuals and young controls were obtained by applying principal network projection to GENs based on Principal Component Analysis. By comparing the core networks, we identified that to overcome the accumulated mutation of genes in the aging process the transcription factor JUN can be activated by stress signals, including the MAPK signaling, T-cell receptor signaling, and neurotrophin signaling pathways through DNA methylation of BTG3, G0S2, and AP2B1 and the regulations of mir-223 let-7d, and mir-130a. We also address the aging mechanisms in old men and women. Furthermore, we proposed that drugs designed to target these DNA methylated genes or miRNAs may delay aging. A multiple drug combination comprising phenylalanine, cholesterol, and palbociclib was finally designed for delaying the aging process.	Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ physiology;Biomarkers/ metabolism;Computational Biology;DNA Methylation;Epigenomics;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Regulatory Networks;Humans;Leukocytes, Mononuclear/ metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics;Middle Aged;Signal Transduction;Young Adult;Gerotarget;anti-ageing drugs;genetic-and-epigenetic network;human aging;microRNAs
Osteoclast-derived exosomal miR-214-3p inhibits osteoblastic bone formation	D. Li, et al.	2016	26947250	Emerging evidence indicates that osteoclasts direct osteoblastic bone formation. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have a crucial role in regulating osteoclast and osteoblast function. However, whether miRNAs mediate osteoclast-directed osteoblastic bone formation is mostly unknown. Here, we show that increased osteoclastic miR-214-3p associates with both elevated serum exosomal miR-214-3p and reduced bone formation in elderly women with fractures and in ovariectomized (OVX) mice. Osteoclast-specific miR-214-3p knock-in mice have elevated serum exosomal miR-214-3p and reduced bone formation that is rescued by osteoclast-targeted antagomir-214-3p treatment. We further demonstrate that osteoclast-derived exosomal miR-214-3p is transferred to osteoblasts to inhibit osteoblast activity in vitro and reduce bone formation in vivo. Moreover, osteoclast-targeted miR-214-3p inhibition promotes bone formation in ageing OVX mice. Collectively, our results suggest that osteoclast-derived exosomal miR-214-3p transfers to osteoblasts to inhibit bone formation. Inhibition of miR-214-3p in osteoclasts may be a strategy for treating skeletal disorders involving a reduction in bone formation.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Animals;Bone Development;Bone and Bones/ metabolism;Case-Control Studies;Cells, Cultured;Down-Regulation;Exosomes/genetics/ metabolism;Female;Fractures, Bone/genetics/ metabolism/physiopathology;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Osteoclasts/ metabolism
MicroRNA-1 promotes apoptosis of hepatocarcinoma cells by targeting apoptosis inhibitor-5 (API-5)	D. Li, et al.	2015	25433291	Although microRNA-1 (miR-1) is a known liver cancer suppressor, the role of miR-1 in apoptosis of hepatoma cells has remained largely unknown. Our study shows that ectopic miR-1 overexpression induced apoptosis of liver hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) cells. Apoptosis inhibitor 5 (API-5) was found to be a potential regulator of miR-1 induced apoptosis, using a bioinformatics approach. Furthermore, an inverse relationship between miR-1 and API-5 expression was observed in human liver cancer tissues and adjacent normal liver tissues. Negative regulation of API-5 expression by miR-1 was demonstrated to promote apoptosis of HepG2 cells. Our study provides a novel regulatory mechanism of miR-1 in the apoptosis of hepatoma cells.	Apoptosis;Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins/ biosynthesis/genetics;Carcinoma, Hepatocellular/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/genetics;Hep G2 Cells;Humans;Liver Neoplasms/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Neoplasm Proteins/ biosynthesis/genetics;Nuclear Proteins/ biosynthesis/genetics;RNA, Neoplasm/ biosynthesis/genetics;Apoptosis inhibitor 5;Hepatocellular carcinoma;Hepatoma cell;microRNA-1
MicroRNA-574 is involved in cognitive impairment in 5-month-old APP/PS1 mice through regulation of neuritin	F. Li, et al.	2015	26423933	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia in the elderly. The recent evidence in AD research suggests that alterations in the microRNA (miRNA) could contribute to risk for the disease. However, little is understood about the roles of miRNAs in cognitive impairment of early Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we used 5-month-old APP/PS1 mice, which mimic many of the salient features of the early stage of AD pathological process, to further investigate the roles of miRNAs in synaptic loss involved in learning and memory. We used miRNA expression microarrays on RNA extracted from the hippocampus of 5-month-old APP/PS1 mice and wild type mice. Real-time reverse transcription PCR was conducted to verify the candidate miRNAs discovered by microarray analysis. The data showed that miR-574 was increased significantly in the hippocampus of 5-month-old APP/PS1 mice, which were concomitant with that APP/PS1 mice at the same age displayed a significant synaptic loss and cognitive deficits. Bioinformatic analysis predicted that neuritin (Nrn1) mRNA is targeted by miR-574. Overexpression of miR-574 lowers the levels of neuritin and synaptic proteins expression in primary hippocampal neurons damage induced by Abeta25-35. And the expression of miR-574 was also up-regulated in the hippocampal neurons from APP/PS1 mice compared with WT littermates. In contrast, suppression of miR-574 by miR-574 inhibitor significantly results in higher levels of neuritin and synaptic proteins expression. Taken together, miR-574 is involved in cognitive impairment in 5-month-old APP/PS1 mice through regulation of neuritin.	Alzheimer Disease/ complications/genetics;Amyloid beta-Peptides/metabolism/pharmacology;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/genetics;Animals;Cognition Disorders/ etiology/ pathology;Disease Models, Animal;GPI-Linked Proteins/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects/ genetics;Hippocampus/drug effects/ metabolism/pathology;Humans;Maze Learning/physiology;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Microarray Analysis;Mutation/genetics;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ metabolism;Peptide Fragments/metabolism/pharmacology;Presenilin-1/genetics;Synapses/metabolism;Synaptophysin/metabolism;5-month-old APP/PS1mice;Cognitive impairment;Neuritin;Synapse;miR-574
Alterations in microRNA expression in stress-induced cellular senescence	G. Li, et al.	2009	19782699	We investigated miRNA expression changes associated with stress-induced premature senescence (SIPS) in primary cultures of human diploid fibroblast (HDF) and human trabecular meshwork (HTM) cells. Twenty-five miRNAs were identified by miRNA microarray analysis and their changes in expression were validated by TaqMan real-time RT-PCR in three independent cell lines of HTM and HDF. SIPS in both HTM and HDF cell types was associated with significant down-regulation of four members of the miR-15 family and five miRNAs of the miR-106b family located in the oncogenic clusters miR-17-92, miR-106a-363, and miR-106b-25. SIPS was also associated with up-regulation of two miRNAs (182 and 183) from the miR-183-96-182 cluster. Transfection with miR-106a agomir inhibited the up-regulation of p21(CDKN1A) associated with SIPS while transfection with miR-106a antagomir led to increased p21(CDKN1A) expression in senescent cells. In addition, we identified retinoic acid receptor gamma (RARG) as a target of miR-182 and showed that this protein was down-regulated during SIPS in HDF and HTM cells. These results suggest that changes in miRNA expression might contribute to phenotypic alterations of senescent cells by modulating the expression of key regulatory proteins such as p21(CDKN1A) as well as by targeting genes that are down-regulated in senescent cells such as RARG.	Adolescent;Adult;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Line;Child;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/genetics;Female;Fibroblasts/chemistry;Gene Expression;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/analysis/ genetics;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Oxidative Stress;Phenotype;Receptors, Retinoic Acid/genetics;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Trabecular Meshwork/chemistry;Transfection
Modulation of inflammatory markers by miR-146a during replicative senescence in trabecular meshwork cells	G. Li, et al.	2010	20053980	PURPOSE: To investigate the alterations in microRNA (miRNA) expression during replicative senescence (RS) in human trabecular meshwork (HTM) cells. METHODS: Two HTM cell lines were serially passaged until they reached RS. Changes in expression of 30 miRNAs were assessed by real-time quantitative (q)-PCR. The effects of miR-146a on gene expression were analyzed with gene arrays and the results confirmed by real-time q-PCR. Protein levels of IRAK1 and PAI-1 were analyzed by Western blot and those of IL6 and IL8 by ELISA. Senescence-associated markers were monitored by flow cytometry and cell proliferation by BrdU incorporation. RESULTS: RS of HTM cells was associated with significant changes in expression of 18 miRNAs, including the upregulation of miR-146a. miR-146a downregulated multiple genes associated with inflammation, including IRAK1, IL6, IL8, and PAI-1, inhibited senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-gal) activity and production of intracellular reactive species (iROS), and increased cell proliferation. Overexpression of either IRAK1 or PAI-1 inhibited the effects of miR-146a on cell proliferation and iROS production in senescent cells. CONCLUSIONS: RS in HTM cells was associated with changes in miRNA expression that could influence the senescent phenotype. Upregulation of the anti-inflammatory miR-146a may serve to restrain excessive production of inflammatory mediators in senescent cells and limit their deleterious effects on the surrounding tissue. Among the different proteins repressed by miR-146a, the inhibition of PAI-1 may act to minimize the effects of senescence on the generation of iROS and growth arrest and prevent alterations of the extracellular proteolytic activity of the TM.	Adult;Blotting, Western;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Line;Cell Proliferation;Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay;Flow Cytometry;Gene Expression Profiling;Genetic Markers;Humans;Interleukin-1 Receptor-Associated Kinases/metabolism;Interleukin-6/metabolism;Interleukin-8/metabolism;Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Plasminogen Activator Inhibitor 1/metabolism;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Tissue Donors;Trabecular Meshwork/ cytology/ metabolism;Transfection
Targeting of integrin beta1 and kinesin 2alpha by microRNA 183	G. Li, et al.	2010	19940135	MicroRNA 183 (miR-183) has been reported to inhibit tumor invasiveness and is believed to be involved in the development and function of ciliated neurosensory organs. We have recently found that expression of miR-183 increased after the induction of cellular senescence by exposure to H(2)O(2). To gain insight into the biological roles of miR-183 we investigated two potential novel targets: integrin beta1 (ITGB1) and kinesin 2alpha (KIF2A). miR-183 significantly decreased the expression of ITGB1 and KIF2A measured by Western blot. Targeting of the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of ITGB1 and KIF2A by miR-183 was confirmed by luciferase assay. Transfection with miR-183 led to a significant decrease in cell invasion and migration capacities of HeLa cells that could be rescued by expression of ITGB1 lacking the 3'-UTR. Although miR-183 had no effects on cell adhesion in HeLa cells, it significantly decreased adhesion to laminin, gelatin, and collagen type I in normal human diploid fibroblasts and human trabecular meshwork cells. These effects were also rescued by expression of ITGB1 lacking the 3'-UTR. Targeting of KIF2A by miR-183 resulted in some increase in the formation of cells with monopolar spindles in HeLa cells but not in human diploid fibroblast or human trabecular meshwork cells. The regulation of ITGB1 expression by miR-183 provides a new mechanism for the anti-metastatic role of miR-183 and suggests that this miRNA could influence the development and function in neurosensory organs, and contribute to functional alterations associated with cellular senescence in human diploid fibroblasts and human trabecular meshwork cells.	3' Untranslated Regions/ physiology;Antigens, CD29/ biosynthesis/genetics;Cell Adhesion/physiology;Cell Movement/ physiology;Fibroblasts/cytology/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation/ physiology;HeLa Cells;Humans;Kinesin/ biosynthesis/genetics;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neoplasm Invasiveness;Neoplasm Metastasis;Trabecular Meshwork/cytology/metabolism
Hepatitis C virus-induced reduction in miR-181a impairs CD4(+) T-cell responses through overexpression of DUSP6	G. Y. Li, et al.	2015	25477247	UNLABELLED: T cells play a crucial role in viral clearance or persistence; however, the precise mechanisms that control their responses during viral infection remain incompletely understood. MicroRNA (miR) has been implicated as a key regulator controlling diverse biological processes through posttranscriptional repression. Here, we demonstrate that hepatitis C virus (HCV)-mediated decline of miR-181a expression impairs CD4(+) T-cell responses through overexpression of dual specific phosphatase 6 (DUSP6). Specifically, a significant decline of miR-181a expression along with overexpression of DUSP6 was observed in CD4(+) T cells from chronically HCV-infected individuals compared to healthy subjects, and the levels of miR-181a loss were found to be negatively associated with the levels of DUSP6 overexpression in these cells. Importantly, reconstitution of miR-181a or blockade of DUSP6 expression in CD4(+) T cells led to improved T-cell responses including enhanced CD25 and CD69 expression, increased interleukin-2 expression, and improved proliferation of CD4(+) T cells derived from chronically HCV-infected individuals. CONCLUSION: Since a decline of miR-181a concomitant with DUSP6 overexpression is the signature marker for age-associated T-cell senescence, these findings provide novel mechanistic insights into HCV-mediated premature T-cell aging through miR-181a-regulated DUSP6 signaling and reveal new targets for therapeutic rejuvenation of impaired T-cell responses during chronic viral infection.	CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes/ physiology;Cells, Cultured;Dual Specificity Phosphatase 6/ biosynthesis;Hepacivirus/ physiology;Humans;MicroRNAs/ physiology
miR-302 Attenuates Amyloid-beta-Induced Neurotoxicity through Activation of Akt Signaling	H. H. Li, et al.	2016	26890744	Deficiency of insulin signaling has been linked to diabetes and ageing-related neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this regard, brains exhibit defective insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) and hence result in alteration of insulin signaling in progression of AD, the most common cause of dementia. Consequently, dysregulation of insulin signaling plays an important role in amyloid-beta (Abeta)-induced neurotoxicity. As the derivation of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC) involves cell reprogramming, it may provide a means for regaining the control of ageing-associated dysfunction and neurodegeneration via affecting insulin-related signaling. To this, we found that an embryonic stem cell (ESC)-specific microRNA, miR-302, silences phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) to activate Akt signaling, which subsequently stimulates nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)/heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) elevation and hence inhibits Abeta-induced neurotoxicity. miR-302 is predominantly expressed in iPSCs and is known to regulate several important biological processes of anti-oxidative stress, anti-apoptosis, and anti-aging through activating Akt signaling. In addition, we also found that miR-302-mediated Akt signaling further stimulates Nanog expression to suppress Abeta-induced p-Ser307 IRS-1 expression and thus enhances tyrosine phosphorylation and p-Ser 473-Akt/p-Ser 9-GSK3beta formation. Furthermore, our in vivo studies revealed that the mRNA expression levels of both Nanog and miR-302-encoding LARP7 genes were significantly reduced in AD patients' blood cells, providing a novel diagnosis marker for AD. Taken together, our findings demonstrated that miR-302 is able to inhibit Abeta-induced cytotoxicity via activating Akt signaling to upregulate Nrf2 and Nanog expressions, leading to a marked restoration of insulin signaling in AD neurons.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ toxicity;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Survival/physiology;Female;Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3 beta/metabolism;Heme Oxygenase-1/metabolism;Humans;Insulin/metabolism;Male;Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial/physiology;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;NF-E2-Related Factor 2/metabolism;Neurons/ metabolism;Oxidative Stress/physiology;PTEN Phosphohydrolase/metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/ metabolism;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Ribonucleoproteins/metabolism;Alzheimer's disease;Nanog;amyloid-beta;insulin signaling;miR-302;phosphatase and tensin homolog
Plasma MicroRNA-126-5p is Associated with the Complexity and Severity of Coronary Artery Disease in Patients with Stable Angina Pectoris	H. Y. Li, et al.	2016	27497911	BACKGROUND: Coronary artery disease (CAD) is a major problem worldwide. As an endothelium-enriched microRNA (miRNA), miR-126 has been reported to serve as a potential biomarker of acute myocardial infarction. However, the relationship between miR-126 and the severity of CAD remains unknown. This study was designed to test whether circulating miR-126 levels are associated with the severity of CAD. METHODS: The present study enrolled 40 patients who had risk factors for CAD without angiographically significant CAD, and 110 patients presenting with stable angina pectoris, who were validated left main coronary artery disease (LMCA) and/or multi-vessel disease by coronary angiography. The expression levels of plasma miR-126-5p from all enrolled subjects were estimated by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Then, the relationships between plasma miR-126-5p levels, number of diseased vessels and the corresponding Synergy between PCI with Taxus and Cardiac surgery (SYNTAX) score were analyzed. RESULTS: The expression of circulating miR-126-5p was affected by some CAD risk factors including aging, dyslipidemia and DM. Furthermore, plasma miR-126-5p levels were significantly down-regulated in CAD patients with multi-vessel disease, higher SYNTAX score, rather than isolated LMCA and low SYNTAX score. CONCLUSION: Circulating miR-126-5p has emerged as a potential biomarker for complexity and severity of CAD in patients with stable angina pectoris.	Age Factors;Aged;Angina, Stable/complications/diagnostic imaging/ genetics/pathology;Biomarkers/blood;Case-Control Studies;Coronary Angiography;Coronary Artery Disease/complications/diagnostic imaging/ genetics/pathology;Diabetes Mellitus/pathology;Dyslipidemias/pathology;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/blood/ genetics;Middle Aged;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Risk Factors;Severity of Illness Index
miR-29b contributes to multiple types of muscle atrophy	J. Li, et al.	2017	28541289	A number of microRNAs (miRNAs, miRs) have been shown to play a role in skeletal muscle atrophy, but their role is not completely understood. Here we show that miR-29b promotes skeletal muscle atrophy in response to different atrophic stimuli in cells and in mouse models. miR-29b promotes atrophy of myotubes differentiated from C2C12 or primary myoblasts, and conversely, its inhibition attenuates atrophy induced by dexamethasone (Dex), TNF-alpha and H2O2 treatment. Targeting of IGF-1 and PI3K(p85alpha) by miR-29b is required for induction of muscle atrophy. In vivo, miR-29b overexpression is sufficient to promote muscle atrophy while inhibition of miR-29b attenuates atrophy induced by denervation and immobilization. These data suggest that miR-29b contributes to multiple types of muscle atrophy via targeting of IGF-1 and PI3K(p85alpha), and that suppression of miR-29b may represent a therapeutic approach for muscle atrophy induced by different stimuli.	
miR-10a restores human mesenchymal stem cell differentiation by repressing KLF4	J. Li, et al.	2013	23696417	miRNAs have recently been shown to play a significant role in human aging. However, data demonstrating the effects of aging-related miRNAs in human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) are limited. We observed that hMSC differentiation decreased with aging. We also identified that miR-10a expression was significantly decreased with age by comparing the miRNA expression of hMSCs derived from young and aged individuals. Therefore, we hypothesized that the downregulation of miR-10a may be associated with the decreased differentiation capability of hMSCs from aged individuals. Lentiviral constructs were used to up- or downregulate miR-10a in young and old hMSCs. Upregulation of miR-10a resulted in increased differentiation to adipogenic, osteogenic, and chondrogenic lineages and in reduced cell senescence. Conversely, downregulation of miR-10a resulted in decreased cell differentiation and increased cell senescence. A chimeric luciferase reporter system was generated, tagged with the full-length 3'-UTR region of KLF4 harboring the seed-matched sequence with or without four nucleotide mutations. These constructs were cotransfected with the miR-10a mimic into cells. The luciferase activity was significantly repressed by the miR-10a mimic, proving the direct binding of miR-10a to the 3'-UTR of KLF4. Direct suppression of KLF4 in aged hMSCs increased cell differentiation and decreased cell senescence. In conclusion, miR-10a restores the differentiation capability of aged hMSCs through repression of KLF4. Aging-related miRNAs may have broad applications in the restoration of cell dysfunction caused by aging.	3' Untranslated Regions;Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Differentiation/physiology;Down-Regulation;Female;Humans;Kruppel-Like Transcription Factors/ genetics/metabolism;Male;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Mutation;Nucleotides/genetics;Up-Regulation;Young Adult
Exosome-derived microRNAs contribute to prostate cancer chemoresistance	J. Li, et al.	2016	27278879	Certain microRNAs (miRNAs) play a key role in cancer cell chemoresistance. However, the pleiotropic functions of exosome-derived miRNAs on developing chemoresistance remain unknown. In the present study, we aimed to construct potential networks of miRNAs, which derived from the exosome of chemoresistant prostate cancer (PCa) cells, with their known target genes using miRNA expression profiling and bioinformatic tools. Global miRNA expression profiles were measured by microarray. Twelve miRNAs were initially selected and validated by qRT-PCR. Known targets of deregulated miRNAs were utilized using DIANA-TarBase database v6.0. The incorporation of deregulated miRNAs and target genes into KEGG pathways were utilized using DIANA-mirPath software. To construct potential miRNA regulatory networks, the overlapping parts of miRNAs and their targer genes from the selected KEGG pathway 'PCa progression (hsa05215)' were visualized by Cytoscape software. We identified 29 deregulated miRNAs, including 19 upregulated and 10 downregulated, in exosome samples derived from two kinds of paclitaxel resistance PCa cells (PC3-TXR and DU145-TXR) compared with their parental cells (PC3 and DU145). The enrichment results of deregulated miRNAs and known target genes showed that a few pathways were correlated with several critical cell signaling pathways. We found that hub hsa-miR3176, -141-3p, -5004-5p, -16-5p, -3915, -4883p, -23c, -3673 and -3654 were potential targets to hub gene androgen receptor (AR) and phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN). Hub gene T-cell factors/lymphoid enhancer-binding factors 4 (TCF4) target genes were mainly regulated by hub hsa-miR-32-5, -141-3p, -606, -381 and -429. These results may provide a linkage between PCa chemoresistance and exosome regulatory networks and thus lead us to propose that AR, PTEN and TCF4 genes may be the important genes which are regulated by exosome miRNAs in chemoresistance cancer cells.	Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Leucine Zipper Transcription Factors/ genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Drug Resistance, Neoplasm/genetics;Exosomes/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Gene Regulatory Networks/genetics;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;PTEN Phosphohydrolase/ genetics;Prostatic Neoplasms/ genetics/pathology;Receptors, Androgen/ genetics;Transcription Factors/ genetics
Key genes expressed in different stages of spinal cord ischemia/reperfusion injury	J. A. Li, et al.	2016	28123428	The temporal expression of microRNA after spinal cord ischemia/reperfusion injury is not yet fully understood. In the present study, we established a model of spinal cord ischemia in Sprague-Dawley rats by clamping the abdominal aorta for 90 minutes, before allowing reperfusion for 24 or 48 hours. A sham-operated group underwent surgery but the aorta was not clamped. The damaged spinal cord was removed for hematoxylin-eosin staining and RNA extraction. Neuronal degeneration and tissue edema were the most severe in the 24-hour reperfusion group, and milder in the 48-hour reperfusion group. RNA amplification, labeling, and hybridization were used to obtain the microRNA expression profiles of each group. Bioinformatics analysis confirmed four differentially expressed microRNAs (miR-22-3p, miR-743b-3p, miR-201-5p and miR-144-5p) and their common target genes (Tmem69 and Cxcl10). Compared with the sham group, miR-22-3p was continuously upregulated in all three ischemia groups but was highest in the group with no reperfusion, whereas miR-743b-3p, miR-201-5p and miR-144-5p were downregulated in the three ischemia groups. We have successfully identified the key genes expressed at different stages of spinal cord ischemia/reperfusion injury, which provide a reference for future investigations into the mechanism of spinal cord injury.	Cxcl10;Tmem69;bioinformatics;ischemia/reperfusion injury;mRNA;microRNA;microRNA arrays;nerve regeneration;neural regeneration;spinal cord injury;transcriptome
Soluble beta-amyloid peptides, but not insoluble fibrils, have specific effect on neuronal microRNA expression	J. J. Li, et al.	2014	24595404	Recent studies indicate that soluble beta-amyloid (sAbeta) oligomers, rather than their fibrillar aggregates, contribute to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), though the mechanisms of their neurotoxicity are still elusive. Here, we demonstrate that sAbeta derived from 7PA2 cells exert a much stronger effect on the regulation of a set of functionally validated microRNAs (miRNAs) in primary cultured neurons than the synthetic insoluble Abeta fibrils (fAbeta). Synthetic sAbeta peptides at a higher concentration present comparable effect on these miRNAs in our neuronal model. Further, the sAbeta-induced miR-134, miR-145 and miR-210 expressions are fully reversed by two selective N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor inhibitors, but are neither reversed by insulin nor by forskolin, suggesting an NMDA receptor-dependent, rather than PI3K/AKT or PKA/CREB signaling dependent regulatory mechanism. In addition, the repression of miR-107 expression by the sAbeta containing 7PA2 CM is likely involved multiple mechanisms and multiple players including NMDA receptor, N-terminally truncated Abeta and reactive oxygen species (ROS).	Alzheimer Disease/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Amyloid/chemistry/ metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/chemistry/ metabolism;Animals;Cells, Cultured;Cyclic AMP Response Element-Binding Protein/metabolism;Cyclic AMP-Dependent Protein Kinases/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Insulin/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neurons/ metabolism/ pathology;Oxidative Stress;Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases/metabolism;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Receptors, N-Methyl-D-Aspartate/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Solubility
Synaptic Dysfunction in Alzheimer's Disease: Abeta, Tau, and Epigenetic Alterations	K. Li, et al.	2017	28456942	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder characterized in the early stages by loss of learning and memory. However, the mechanism underlying these symptoms remains unclear. The best correlation between cognitive decline and pathological changes is in synaptic dysfunction. Histopathological hallmarks of AD are the abnormal aggregation of Abeta and Tau. Evidence suggests that Abeta and Tau oligomers contribute to synaptic loss in AD. Recently, direct links between epigenetic alterations, such as dysfunction in non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs), and synaptic pathologies have emerged, raising interest in exploring the potential roles of ncRNAs in the synaptic deficits in AD. In this paper, we summarize the potential roles of Abeta, Tau, and epigenetic alterations (especially by ncRNAs) in the synaptic dysfunction of AD and discuss the novel findings in this area.	Alzheimer's disease;Epigenetic alterations;Synaptic dysfunction;Tau;miRNA
KLRG1 restricts memory T cell antitumor immunity	L. Li, et al.	2016	27557510	Killer cell lectin-like receptor subfamily G member 1 (KLRG1) has been found on human memory T lymphocytes. However, the roles of KLRG1 on human T cells especially in tumor microenvironment have not been fully understood. Our results showed KLRG1 expression on T cells significantly increased in tumor microenvironment. KLRG1+ T cells exhibited poor proliferative capacity with decreased effector cytokine production. Meanwhile, KLRG1+ T cells expressed abundant pro-inflammatory cytokines and demonstrated high level of Foxp3 expression. KLRG1+ T cells showed decreased expression of miRNA-101 and higher expression of CtBP2. Our results indicated KLRG1 might contribute to the impaired antitumor immunity of memory T cells in tumor microenvironment. Thus, repressing KLRG1 on human memory T cells might be a novel therapeutics against cancer.	Klrg1;antitumor immunity;memory T cells;senescence
miR-34c works downstream of p53 leading to dairy goat male germline stem-cell (mGSCs) apoptosis	M. Li, et al.	2013	23510477	OBJECTIVES: Recent lines of evidence have indicated that miR-34c can play important roles in regulation of the cell cycle, cell senescence and apoptosis of mouse and human tumour cells, spermatogenesis, and male germ-cell apoptosis. However, there is little information on the effects of miR-34c on proliferation and apoptosis of livestock male germ cells. The dairy goat is a convenient domestic species for biological investigation and application. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of miR-34c on apoptosis and proliferation of dairy goat male germline stem cells (mGSCs), as well as to determine the relationship between p53 and miR-34c in this species. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Morphological observation, miRNA in situ hybridisation (ISH), bromodeoxyuridine staining, flow cytometry, quantitative-RT-PCR (Q-RT-PCR) and western blotting were utilized to ascertain apoptosis and proliferation of mGSCs, through transfection of miR-34c mimics (miR-34c), miR-34c inhibitor (anti-miR-34c), miR-34c mimics and inhibitors co-transfected (mixture) compared to control groups. RESULTS: Results manifested that miR-34c over-expression promoted mGSCs apoptosis and suppressed their proliferation. Simultaneously, a variety of apoptosis-related gene expression was increased while some proliferation-related genes were downregulated. Accordingly, miR-34c promoted apoptosis in mGSCs and reduced their proliferation; moreover, expression of miR-34c was p53-dependent. CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to provide a model for study of miRNAs and mechanisms of proliferation and apoptosis in male dairy goat germ cells.	Animals;Apoptosis;Blotting, Western;Bromodeoxyuridine/metabolism;Cell Proliferation;Dose-Response Relationship, Drug;Doxorubicin/pharmacology;Flow Cytometry;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Goats/growth & development/ metabolism;In Situ Hybridization;Male;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction/methods;Spermatozoa/metabolism/pathology;Stem Cells/metabolism/ pathology;Testis/metabolism/pathology;Time Factors;Transcriptional Activation;Transfection;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/ metabolism
Up-regulation of key microRNAs, and inverse down-regulation of their predicted oxidative phosphorylation target genes, during aging in mouse brain	N. Li, et al.	2011	19487051	Although significant advances have been made in the study of the molecular mechanisms controlling brain aging, post-transcriptional gene regulation in normal brain aging has yet to be explored. Our lab recently reported that predominant microRNA up-regulation is observed in liver during aging, with key microRNAs predicted to target detoxification genes. Here we examine the role of microRNA regulation in brain during the normal aging process. MicroRNA microarrays and global proteomic profiling were used to compare the brain tissues of 10-, 18-, 24-, and 33-month-old mice. Our results suggest that: (1) like liver, during aging the brain exhibits predominant microRNA up-regulation, and this trend starts in mid-life; (2) of the 70 up-regulated microRNAs, 27 are predicted to target 10 genes of mitochondrial complexes III, IV, and F0F1-ATPase, which exhibit inversely correlated expression; (3) mice of extreme longevity (33-month old) exhibit fewer microRNA expression changes from 10-month-old levels than do old adult mice (24-month old). We found unique de-regulated microRNAs shared between aging brain and aging liver, as well as brain- vs. liver-specific microRNAs during normal aging.	Aging/genetics/ metabolism;Animals;Brain/ metabolism;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Regulation;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Oxidative Phosphorylation;Proteomics;Up-Regulation
A combined array-based comparative genomic hybridization and functional library screening approach identifies mir-30d as an oncomir in cancer	N. Li, et al.	2012	22058146	Oncomirs are microRNAs (miRNA) that acts as oncogenes or tumor suppressor genes. Efficient identification of oncomirs remains a challenge. Here we report a novel, clinically guided genetic screening approach for the identification of oncomirs, identifying mir-30d through this strategy. mir-30d regulates tumor cell proliferation, apoptosis, senescence, and migration. The chromosomal locus harboring mir-30d was amplified in more than 30% of multiple types of human solid tumors (n = 1,283). Importantly, higher levels of mir-30d expression were associated significantly with poor clinical outcomes in ovarian cancer patients (n = 330, P = 0.0016). Mechanistic investigations suggested that mir-30d regulates a large number of cancer-associated genes, including the apoptotic caspase CASP3. The guided genetic screening approach validated by this study offers a powerful tool to identify oncomirs that may have utility as biomarkers or targets for drug development.	Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Cell Proliferation;Chromosome Mapping;Comparative Genomic Hybridization;Female;Humans;In Situ Hybridization;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Ovarian Neoplasms/ genetics/pathology;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction
Increased expression of miR-34a and miR-93 in rat liver during aging, and their impact on the expression of Mgst1 and Sirt1	N. Li, et al.	2011	21216258	Age-dependent loss of oxidative defense is well recognized in rodent models, although the control mechanism is still obscure; a few studies have shown how microRNAs, a non-coding RNA species, regulate the expression of their target genes at the post-transcriptional level. In the current study, miR-34a and miR-93 are observed to increase in middle- and old-age rat liver, compared to young rats; the up-regulation of these two miRNAs is determined by qPCR through a grind-and-find approach, and histochemical in situ hybridization. Three commonly used miRNA target prediction programs suggest four candidate targets of miR-34a and miR-93: Sp1, Nrf2 (Nfe2l2), Sirt1 and Mgst1; their expression is found to be reduced inversely to the up-regulation of the two miRNAs by Western blotting of protein extracts, as well as immunofluorescence staining of intact liver tissues. Furthermore, the suppression of the four proteins by miR-34a/miR-93 is examined in HEK 293 cells by transfection and co-transfection; miR-34a represses all four proteins' expression, whereas miR-93 affects only Sp1, Sirt1 and Mgst1. Taken together, our study suggests a model of post-transcriptional repression, not only of genes involved in oxidative stress regulation and oxidative stress defense proteins, such as Sirt1 and Mgst1, but also of upstream transcription factors (TFs) regulating their activation, since Sp1 is the TF for both Sirt1 and Mgst1, and Nrf2 is the TF of Mgst1. Thus, up-regulation of both miR-34a and miR-93 constitutes an inescapable repression of two vital oxidative defense genes, by targeting not only the targets, but also transcription factors controlling their activation, a double dampening regulation at the post-transcriptional level.	Aging/ physiology;Animals;Glutathione Transferase/ biosynthesis/genetics;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Liver/ metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Oxidative Stress/ physiology;Rats;Rats, Inbred F344;Sirtuin 1/ biosynthesis/genetics;Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;Up-Regulation
Overexpression of miR-584-5p inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis by targeting WW domain-containing E3 ubiquitin protein ligase 1 in gastric cancer	Q. Li, et al.	2017	28431583	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs are endogenously expressed, small non-coding RNAs that modulate gene expression by targeting specific mRNAs, resulting in translational repression or mRNA degradation. Although miR-584-5p has been reported to play a vital role in various malignancies, its role and the molecular mechanisms underlying the effects of miR-584-5p in gastric cancer (GC) remain to be clarified. In this study, we investigated the role of miR-584-5p in GC. METHODS: The expression of miR-584-5p and its specific target gene were determined in human GC specimens and cell lines by microRNA real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) and Western blot. The effects of miR-584-5p depletion or ectopic expression on GC proliferation were evaluated in vitro using CCK-8 proliferation assays, 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) incorporation, colony formation assays and cell-cycle assays and the in vivo effects were investigated using a mouse tumorigenicity model. Cell apoptosis was evaluated by in vitro flow cytometric analysis, cell viability assays and in vivo TUNEL assays. Luciferase reporter assays were employed to identify interactions between miR-584-5p and its specific target gene. RESULTS: A series of in vitro and in vivo gain- and loss-of-function assays revealed that miR-584-5p inhibited GC cell proliferation, while apoptosis was induced. Luciferase reporter assays and Western blot analysis revealed WWP1 to be a direct target of miR-584-5p. The effects of miR-584-5p-mimic were rescued by WWP1 overexpression. In contrast, the effects of the miR-584-5p-inhibitor were impaired by WWP1-shRNA. Furthermore, miR-584-5p expression levels correlated negatively with WWP1 protein expression in GC tissues and GC cell lines. A series of investigations indicated that miR-584-5p promoted senescence and activated the TGFbeta signaling pathway by downregulation of WWP1. CONCLUSION: Taken together, these results suggest that downregulation of miR-584-5p contributes to tumor progression by downregulation of WWP1, thus, highlighting the potential of miR-584-5p as a therapeutic target for human GC.	Apoptosis;Cellular senescence;Gastric cancer;Proliferation;TGFbeta signaling pathway;Wwp1;miR-584-5p
MicroRNA-34a promoting apoptosis of human lens epithelial cells through down-regulation of B-cell lymphoma-2 and silent information regulator	Q. L. Li, et al.	2016	27990356	AIM: To investigate the role of microRNA-34a (miR-34a) in the induction of apoptosis of human lens epithelial (HLE-B3) cells. METHODS: The apoptosis of HLE-B3 cells was detected by Annexin V-PE apoptosis detection kit after the treatment with 200 micromol/L H2O2 for 24h and lentiviral miR-34a vector transfection. The expression of miR-34a in the cells was quantified by quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) in response to H2O2 exposure and the vector transfection. The effects of overexpression of miR-34a on the expression of B-cell lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2) and silent information regulator 1 (SIRT1) was determined by qRT-PCR and Western blot. RESULTS: The expression of miR-34a was up-regulated by the treatment of H2O2 in HLE-B3 cells. The increased expression of miR-34a is accompanied with the cell apoptosis. Consistence with the H2O2 exposure, ectopic overexpression of miR-34a in HLE-B3 cells promoted cells apoptosis. Importantly the anti-apoptosis factors Bcl-2 and SIRT1 were reduced significantly by up-regulation of miR-34a in HLE-B3 cells. CONCLUSION: MiR-34a promotes the apoptosis of HLE-B3 cells by down-regulating Bcl-2 and SIRT1, suggesting that miR-34a may involve in the pathogenesis of cataract formation and targeting miR-34a may be a potentially therapeutic approach for treatment of cataract.	apoptosis;human lens epithelial cells;microRNA-34a
Neuroprotective Effect of Osthole on Neuron Synapses in an Alzheimer's Disease Cell Model via Upregulation of MicroRNA-9	S. Li, et al.	2016	27394443	Accumulation of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) in the brain plays an important role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). It has been reported that osthole exerts its neuroprotective effect on neuronal synapses, but its exact mechanism is obscure. Recently, microRNAs have been demonstrated to play a crucial role in inducing synaptotoxicity by Abeta, implying that targeting microRNAs could be a therapeutic approach of AD. In the present study, we investigated the neuroprotective effects of osthole on a cell model of AD by transducing APP695 Swedish mutant (APP695swe, APP) into mouse cortical neurons and human SH-SY5Y cells. In this study, the cell counting kit CCK-8, apoptosis assay, immunofluorescence analysis, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction, and Western blot assay were used. We found that osthole could enhance cell viability, prevent cell death, and reverse the reduction of synaptic proteins (synapsin-1, synaptophysin, and postsynaptic density-95) in APP-overexpressed cells, which was attributed to increases in microRNA-9 (miR-9) expression and subsequent decreases in CAMKK2 and p-AMPKalpha expressions. These results demonstrated that osthole plays a neuroprotective activity role in part through upregulating miR-9 in AD.	Alzheimer Disease/genetics/ metabolism;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/genetics;Animals;Calcium-Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase Kinase/genetics/metabolism;Cell Line, Tumor;Cells, Cultured;Coumarins/ pharmacology;Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factors/genetics/metabolism;Humans;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neurons/ drug effects/metabolism;Neuroprotective Agents/ pharmacology;Protein Kinases/genetics/metabolism;Synapses/ drug effects/metabolism;Synapsins/genetics/metabolism;Synaptophysin/genetics/metabolism;Alzheimer's disease;Amyloid precursor protein;CAMKK2-AMPK pathway;Neuron synapses;Osthole;miR-9
Osthole Stimulated Neural Stem Cells Differentiation into Neurons in an Alzheimer's Disease Cell Model via Upregulation of MicroRNA-9 and Rescued the Functional Impairment of Hippocampal Neurons in APP/PS1 Transgenic Mice	S. H. Li, et al.	2017	28659755	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most serious neurodegenerative disease worldwide and is characterized by progressive cognitive impairment and multiple neurological changes, including neuronal loss in the brain. However, there are no available drugs to delay or cure this disease. Consequently, neuronal replacement therapy may be a strategy to treat AD. Osthole (Ost), a natural coumarin derivative, crosses the blood-brain barrier and exerts strong neuroprotective effects against AD in vitro and in vivo. Recently, microRNAs (miRNAs) have demonstrated a crucial role in pathological processes of AD, implying that targeting miRNAs could be a therapeutic approach to AD. In the present study, we investigated whether Ost could enhance cell viability and prevent cell death in amyloid precursor protein (APP)-expressing neural stem cells (NSCs) as well as promote APP-expressing NSCs differentiation into more neurons by upregulating microRNA (miR)-9 and inhibiting the Notch signaling pathway in vitro. In addition, Ost treatment in APP/PS1 double transgenic (Tg) mice markedly restored cognitive functions, reduced Abeta plague production and rescued functional impairment of hippocampal neurons. The results of the present study provides evidence of the neurogenesis effects and neurobiological mechanisms of Ost against AD, suggesting that Ost is a promising drug for treatment of AD or other neurodegenerative diseases.	Alzheimer's disease;amyloid precursor protein;microRNA-9;neural stem cell;osthole
The comparison of microRNA profile of the dermis between the young and elderly	T. Li, et al.	2016	26899446	BACKGROUND: Skin aging is a process of structural and compositional remodeling that can be manifested as wrinkling and sagging. Remarkably, the dermis plays a dominant role in the process of skin aging. Recent studies suggest that microRNAs (miRNAs) may play a role in the regulation of gene expression in organism aging. However, studies about age-related miRNAs in human skin remain limited. OBJECTIVE: To obtain an overall view of miRNAs expression in human aged dermis by comparison of dermis samples between young and elderly, construct the miRNA-gene-network and reveal the pivotal miRNAs in the regulatory network. METHODS: Human dermis tissue was obtained from 12 donors, including 6 of young group and 6 of elderly one. The miRNA microarray and data analysis were performed. Target genes of differentially expressed miRNAs were predicted, followed by a gene ontology and pathway enrichment analysis. A miRNA-gene-network was then constructed, and the pivotal miRNAs in the network was revealed. Primary human dermal fibroblasts (HDFs) were isolated, and the cellular senescence was induced by serial passaging. Alteration in the expression of miRNAs between young and senescent fibroblasts was evaluated by real-time quantitative RT-PCR. MiR-34b-5p mimics were transfected into primary HDFs. Subsequent cell cycle analysis was performed and expression level of COL1A1, elastin and MMP-1 were evaluated. RESULTS: The expression of a total of 40 miRNAs (25 upregulated and 15 downregulated) was found to be significantly altered in aged dermis compared with young dermis. Real-time quantitative PCR results confirmed the differential expression of miR-34 family and miR-29 family between young and aged dermis. A computational approach demonstrated that predicted target genes of the miRNA profile were found to be mainly involved in processes including cell adhesion, collagen synthesis, positive or negative regulation of transcription, as well as pathways such as insulin signaling pathway, ErbB (Erythroblastic Leukemia Viral Oncogene Homolog) signaling pathway and Focal adhesion pathway. The miRNA-Gene-Network revealed that miR-34 family, miR-29 family and miR-424 may play a dominant role in the regulatory network. A similar miRNA alteration was observed in senescent fibroblasts in vitro, and the age-related miRNA profile may interact with p16 pathway to regulate the fibroblasts' senescence. Additionally, transfection of miR-34b-5p mimics induced cell cycle arrest in HDFs, decreased the expression of both COL1A1 and elastin and increased MMP-1 expression. CONCLUSION: The miR-34 family and miR-29 family expressed differentially in young and aged dermis. MiR-34 in HDFs modulated the cell function and expression of MMP-1, COL1A1 and elastin. The miRNAs may play critical roles in affecting dermis aging.	Age Factors;Aged;Cell Aging/genetics;Child;Dermis/ metabolism;Down-Regulation;Fibroblasts/metabolism/physiology;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Regulatory Networks;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics/physiology;Middle Aged;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction;Skin Aging/ genetics;Up-Regulation;Dermis;Human;MicroRNA;Skin aging;microRNA-29;microRNA-34
Exploring MicroRNAs on NIX-Dependent Mitophagy	W. Li, et al.	2017	28337709	The dysregulation of autophagy is implicated in many pathological disorders including infections, aging, neurodegenerative diseases, and cancer. Autophagy can be precisely controlled both transcriptionally and translationally. Accumulating evidences show that the autophagy response is regulated by microRNAs, which therefore becomes subject area of interest in recent years. Herein, we give a brief introduction of the recent advancement in the regulation of microRNA on autophagy, and then we focus on the microRNA regulation of the mitophagy receptor, NIX. Finally, we present the methodology on how to study it in detail.	Autophagy;Bnip3l;Lc3;MicroRNAs;Mitophagy;Nix
Unraveling the characteristics of microRNA regulation in the developmental and aging process of the human brain	W. Li, et al.	2013	24321625	BACKGROUND: Structure and function of the human brain are subjected to dramatic changes during its development and aging. Studies have demonstrated that microRNAs (miRNAs) play an important role in the regulation of brain development and have a significant impact on brain aging and neurodegeneration. However, the underlining molecular mechanisms are not well understood. In general, development and aging are conventionally studied separately, which may not completely address the physiological mechanism over the entire lifespan. Thus, we study the regulatory effect between miRNAs and mRNAs in the developmental and aging process of the human brain by integrating miRNA and mRNA expression profiles throughout the lifetime. METHODS: In this study, we integrated miRNA and mRNA expression profiles in the human brain across lifespan from the network perspective. First, we chose the age-related miRNAs by polynomial regression models. Second, we constructed the bipartite miRNA-mRNA regulatory network by pair-wise correlation coefficient analysis between miRNA and mRNA expression profiles. At last, we constructed the miRNA-miRNA synergistic network from the miRNA-mRNA network, considering not only the enrichment of target genes but also GO function enrichment of co-regulated target genes. RESULTS: We found that the average degree of age-related miRNAs was significantly higher than that of non age-related miRNAs in the miRNA-mRNA regulatory network. The topological features between age-related and non age-related miRNAs were significantly different, and 34 reliable age-related miRNA synergistic modules were identified using Cfinder in the miRNA-miRNA synergistic network. The synergistic regulations of module genes were verified by reviewing miRNA target databases and previous studies. CONCLUSIONS: Age-related miRNAs play a more important role than non age-related mrRNAs in the developmental and aging process of the human brain. The age-related miRNAs have synergism, which tend to work together as small modules. These results may provide a new insight into the regulation of miRNAs in the developmental and aging process of the human brain.	Aging/ genetics;Brain/ growth & development/metabolism/physiology;Computational Biology;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Regulatory Networks;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics
MicroRNA-613 regulates the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor in Alzheimer's disease	W. Li, et al.	2016	27545218	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive loss of memory and other cognitive functions and presents an increasing clinical challenge in terms of diagnosis and treatment. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays an important role in neuronal survival and proliferation. In the present study, the mRNA and protein expression level of BDNF was detected in serum, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), dementia of Alzheimer's type (DAT), and hippocampus in APP/PS1 mice. A significant decrease of BDNF mRNA and protein expression was observed in serum and CSF of patients and hippocampus in APP/PS1 mice compared with the corresponding controls. miR-613, which is predicted to target the 3'-UTR of BDNF, was also detected in patients and the mouse model. Opposite to the alteration of BDNF, miR-613 expression in serum, CSF and hippocampus were obviously increased compared to the controls. In conclusion, these findings showed that miR-613 may function in the development of AD and may provide new insights in diagnosis and treatment of AD.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Aged;Alzheimer Disease/genetics/ metabolism;Animals;Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor/genetics/ metabolism;Cell Line;Cognitive Dysfunction/genetics/metabolism;Female;Hippocampus/metabolism;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Middle Aged
Differential miRNA profile on photoaged primary human fibroblasts irradiated with ultraviolet A	W. Li, et al.	2013	23832538	Photoaging is cell aging caused by long-wave ultraviolet (UVA) radiation which is the main cause of human skin aging produced by exogenous environment. As an endogenous noncoding small RNA, microRNAs (miRNAs) are sensitive to environmental changes, and the expression change of miRNAs is an important manner to adjust to environment. However, the miRNA profile on photoaged human skin irradiated with UVA remains unknown and whether UVA responsive miRNAs participate in the UVA-caused stress reaction of skin cells is also unclear. In this study, we established an in vitro photoaging model with UVA-radiated human primary cultured fibroblasts, which could mimic UVA-induced photoaging of skin. Differentially expressed miRNAs during photoaging, including five up- and seven downregulated miRNAs, were found by microarray analysis and were verified by quantitative real-time PCR. With bioinformatics methods, the predicted miRNA targets were suggested to be associated with pathways in cancers. Among the significantly UVA-downregulated miRNAs, miR-146a overexpression antagonized the UVA-induced proliferation inhibition and suppressed the upregulation of aging-related genes in photoaging of our model. Western blot and luciferase assay showed that Smad4 might be a target of miR-146a to exert miR-146a functions during photoaging. Therefore, UVA radiation-induced photoaging results in specific patterns of miRNA response and miR-146a are able to antagonize UVA-caused photoaging partially through targeting Smad4.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Base Sequence;Blotting, Western;Cell Proliferation/radiation effects;Cells, Cultured;Down-Regulation/radiation effects;Fibroblasts/cytology/metabolism/ radiation effects;Humans;Luciferases/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Mutation;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Skin Aging/genetics/radiation effects;Smad4 Protein/genetics/metabolism;Transcriptome/ radiation effects;Ultraviolet Rays;Up-Regulation/radiation effects
Circulatory miR34a as an RNAbased, noninvasive biomarker for brain aging	X. Li, et al.	2011	22064828	MicroRNAs in blood samples have been identified as an important class of biomarkers, which can reflect physiological changes from cancer to brain dysfunction. In this report we identify concordant increases in levels of expression of miR-34a in brain and two components of mouse blood samples, peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and plasma, from 2 day old neonates through young adulthood and mid-life to old age at 25 months. Levels of this microRNA's prime target, silent information regulator 1 (SIRT1), in brain and the two blood-derived specimens decrease with age inversely to miR-34a, starting as early as 4 months old, when appreciable tissue aging has not yet begun. Our results suggest that: 1. Increased miR-34a and the reciprocal decrease of its target, SIRT1, in blood specimens are the accessible biomarkers for age-dependent changes in brain; and 2. these changes are predictors of impending decline in brain function, as early as in young adult mice.	Aging/ physiology;Animals;Biomarkers/ blood;Brain/ physiology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ blood;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2/genetics/metabolism;Sirtuin 1/genetics/metabolism;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/metabolism
Isocaloric Pair-Fed High-Carbohydrate Diet Induced More Hepatic Steatosis and Inflammation than High-Fat Diet Mediated by miR-34a/SIRT1 Axis in Mice	X. Li, et al.	2015	26608583	To investigate the different effects of isocaloric high-fat diet (HFD) and high-carbohydrate diet (HCD) on hepatic steatosis and the underlying mechanisms, especially the role of microRNA-34a/silent information regulator T1 (SIRT1) axis, C57BL/6J mice (n = 12/group) were isocaloric pair-fed with Lieber-DeCarli liquid diet containing either high fat (HFLD) or high carbohydrate (HCLD) for 16 weeks. As compared to the HFLD fed mice, despite the similar final body weights, HCLD feeding: (1) induced more severe hepatic steatosis; (2) up-regulated hepatic expression of miR-34a accompanied with significant decrease of SIRT1 and nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT), SIRT1 activity and phosphorylation of AMPK; (3) up-regulated de novo lipogenesis (DNL) related proteins expression (ACC, SCD1), and down-regulated expressions of miR-122, miR-370 and miR-33; (4) decreased mRNA expressions of genes Cpt1, Pparalpha and Pgc1alpha related to fatty acid oxidation; (5) increased hepatic total cholesterol concentration and decreased expression of cholesterol metabolism related genes Abcg5, Abcg8, Abcg11, Cyp7a1 and Cyp8b1; and (6) induced higher hepatic inflammatory response accompanied with significant increased mRNA expressions of Il1beta, Tnfalpha and Mcp1. Thus, isocaloric HCLD feeding induced greater severity in hepatic steatosis and inflammatory response than HFLD feeding, potentially through miR-34a/SIRT1 axis mediated promotion of DNL, inhibition of fatty acid oxidation and cholesterol metabolism.	Adenylate Kinase/metabolism;Animals;Cholesterol/blood;Diet, High-Fat/ adverse effects;Dietary Carbohydrates/ adverse effects;Fatty Liver/blood/ chemically induced/ complications/genetics;Feeding Behavior;Inflammation/blood/ complications/genetics;Lipid Metabolism/genetics;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Nicotinamide Phosphoribosyltransferase/metabolism;Organ Size;Phosphorylation;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Sirtuin 1/genetics/ metabolism
Micro-RNA30c negatively regulates REDD1 expression in human hematopoietic and osteoblast cells after gamma-irradiation	X. H. Li, et al.	2012	23144934	We recently demonstrated that a novel cell stress response gene REDD1 protects human fetal osteoblast cell line (hFOB) cells from gamma-radiation-induced premature senescence. Here we show that levels of endogenous REDD1 are very low in human hematopoietic progenitor CD34+ cells regardless of radiation, but highly expressed in differentiated hematopoietic cells (14 day cultured CD34+ cells) in response to radiation, which might be associated with radiation tolerance of the latter cells. To further understand the mechanisms of radiation-induced damage in different cells, microRNA (miRNA)-arrays were performed using purified miRNAs from CD34+ and hFOB cells before and post-irradiation and real-time reverse transcription (RT)-PCR was used to validate the expression profiles of miRNAs in the radiation-damaged cells. The results indicate that gamma-radiation downregulated 16 miRNAs in CD34+ cells and 14 in hFOB cells. Radiation-induced upregulation was observed for 15 miRNAs in CD34+ cells and 18 miRNAs in hFOB cells. The profiles of radiation-induced miRNA expression were completely different in CD34+ vs. hFOB cells. Radiation up-regulated miRNA (miR)-30b, miR-30c and miR-30d in CD34+ cells, whereas it inhibited miR-30c expression in hFOB cells. Since miR-30 has potential target sites located in the 3'untranslated region (UTR) of the REDD1 gene and radiation regulated miR-30c expression in both CD34+ and hFOB cells, we further explored the effects of miR-30c on REDD1 expression using miR-30c inhibitor and precursor (pre-miR-30c). The results show that pre-miR-30c transfection suppressed REDD1 expression in 14 day cultured CD34+ cells and hFOB cells and resulted in hFOB cell death. In contrast, inhibition of miR-30c expression significantly enhanced clonogenicity in CD34+ cells. Our data suggest that CD34+ and hFOB cells have different miRNA expression patterns after irradiation and miR-30c plays a key role in radiation-induced cell damage which might be through regulation of REDD1 expression.	Antigens, CD34/metabolism;Cell Differentiation;Cell Line;Cluster Analysis;Gamma Rays;Gene Expression Regulation/ radiation effects;Hematopoietic Stem Cells/metabolism/ radiation effects;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism/ physiology;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Osteoblasts/metabolism/ radiation effects;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Transcription Factors/ genetics/metabolism
H2S regulates endothelial nitric oxide synthase protein stability by promoting microRNA-455-3p expression	X. H. Li, et al.	2017	28322298	The aims of the present study are to determine whether hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is involved in the expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and nitric oxide (NO) production, and to identify the role of microRNA-455-3p (miR-455-3p) during those processes. In cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), the expression of miR-455-3p, eNOS protein and the NO production was detected after administration with 50 muM NaHS. The results indicated that H2S could augment the expression of miR-455-3p and eNOS protein, leading to the increase of NO level. We also found that overexpression of miR-455-3p in HUVECs increased the protein levels of eNOS whereas inhibition of miR-455-3p decreased it. Moreover, H2S and miR-455-3p could no longer increase the protein level of eNOS in the presence of proteasome inhibitor, MG-132. In vivo, miR-455-3p and eNOS expression were considerably increased in C57BL/6 mouse aorta, muscle and heart after administration with 50 mumol/kg/day NaHS for 7 days. We also identified that H2S levels and miR-455-3p expression increased in human atherosclerosis plaque while H2S levels decreased in plasma of atherosclerosis patients. Our data suggest that the stability of eNOS protein and the NO production could be regulated by H2S through miR-455-3p.	
miR-17-92 explains MYC oncogene addiction	Y. Li, et al.	2014	27308380	MYC regulates tumorigenesis by coordinating the expression of thousands of genes. We found that MYC appears to regulate the decisions between cell survival versus death and self-renewal versus senescence through the microRNA miR-17-92 cluster. Addiction to the MYC oncogene may therefore in fact be an addiction to miR-17-92.	Myc;lymphoma;microRNA miR-17-92;oncogene addiction
Expression of the microRNAs hsa-miR-15a and hsa-miR-16-1 in lens epithelial cells of patients with age-related cataract	Y. Li, et al.	2015	25932180	This study aimed to examine and analyze the expression levels of hsa-miR-15a and hsa-miR-16-1 in lens epithelial cells from patients with age-related cataract to understand better the roles of these microRNAs in the pathogenesis of this disease. Lens epithelial cells of 60 age-related cataract patients (including 20 with cortical cataracts, 20 with nuclear cataracts, and 20 with posterior subcapsular cataracts) and 20 normal patients were included in the study. Real-time PCR was used to detect the expression of hsa-miR-15a-5p, hsa-miR-15a-3p, hsa-miR-16-1-5p, and hsa-miR-16-1-3p. Expression of the target genes of these microRNAs, namely bcl-2 and mcl-1, was also evaluated. hsa-miR-15a-5p, hsa-miR-15a-3p, and hsa-miR-16-1-5p were expressed at low levels in normal lens epithelial cells but at significantly higher levels in corresponding cells of patients with cortical, nuclear, or posterior subcapsular cataracts (P < 0.01). hsa-miR-16-1-3p was expressed at relatively high levels in normal lens epithelial cells but significantly decreased expression, or none at all, was detected in cells of patients from each cataract group (P < 0.01). Concerning their target genes bcl-2 and mcl-1, expression was detectable in normal lens epithelial cells, but their levels were significantly decreased in cataract patients, irrespective of type (P < 0.01). Expression of hsa-miR-15a-5p, hsa-miR-15a-3p, and hsa-miR-16-1-5p rose in lens epithelial cells in the three types of age-related cataract, which may suppress the expression of the anti-apoptotic genes bcl-2 and mcl-1, thereby contributing to the pathogenesis of age-related cataract through apoptosis.	Age-related cataract;bcl-2;hsa-miR-15a;hsa-miR-16-1;mcl-1
Characterizing genes with distinct methylation patterns in the context of protein-protein interaction network: application to human brain tissues	Y. Li, et al.	2013	23776563	BACKGROUND: DNA methylation is an essential epigenetic mechanism involved in transcriptional control. However, how genes with different methylation patterns are assembled in the protein-protein interaction network (PPIN) remains a mystery. RESULTS: In the present study, we systematically dissected the characterization of genes with different methylation patterns in the PPIN. A negative association was detected between the methylation levels in the brain tissues and topological centralities. By focusing on two classes of genes with considerably different methylation levels in the brain tissues, namely the low methylated genes (LMGs) and high methylated genes (HMGs), we found that their organizing principles in the PPIN are distinct. The LMGs tend to be the center of the PPIN, and attacking them causes a more deleterious effect on the network integrity. Furthermore, the LMGs express their functions in a modular pattern and substantial differences in functions are observed between the two types of genes. The LMGs are enriched in the basic biological functions, such as binding activity and regulation of transcription. More importantly, cancer genes, especially recessive cancer genes, essential genes, and aging-related genes were all found more often in the LMGs. Additionally, our analysis presented that the intra-classes communications are enhanced, but inter-classes communications are repressed. Finally, a functional complementation was revealed between methylation and miRNA regulation in the human genome. CONCLUSIONS: We have elucidated the assembling principles of genes with different methylation levels in the context of the PPIN, providing key insights into the complex epigenetic regulation mechanisms.	Brain/ metabolism;Computational Biology;DNA Methylation/ genetics;Epigenesis, Genetic/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation/ genetics;Genes/ genetics;Humans;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Protein Interaction Maps/ genetics;Proteomics
Altered expression of hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channels and microRNA-1 and -133 in patients with age-associated atrial fibrillation	Y. D. Li, et al.	2015	26005035	Hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) cation channels mediate pacemaker currents in the atrium. The microRNA (miR) families miR-1 and miR-133 regulate the expression of multiple genes involved in myocardial function, including HCN channels. It was hypothesized that agedependent changes in HCN2, HCN4, miR1 and miR133 expression may contribute to ageassociated atrial fibrillation, and therefore the correlation between expression levels, among adult (</=65 years) and aged patients (>/=65 years), and sinus rhythm was determined. Right atrial appendage samples were collected from 60 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. Reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and western blot analyses were performed in order to determine target RNA and protein expression levels. Compared with aged patients with sinus rhythm, aged patients with atrial fibrillation exhibited significantly higher HCN2 and HCN4 channel mRNA and protein expression levels (P<0.05), but significantly lower expression levels of miR1 and miR133 (P<0.05). In addition, aged patients with sinus rhythm exhibited significantly higher expression levels of HCN2 and HCN4 channel mRNA and protein (P<0.05), but significantly lower expression levels of miR1 and 133 (P<0.05), compared with those of adult patients with sinus rhythm. Expression levels of HCN2 and HCN4 increased with age, and a greater increase was identified in patients with ageassociated atrial fibrillation compared with that in those with aged sinus rhythm. These electrophysiological changes may contribute to the induction of ectopic premature beats that trigger atrial fibrillation.	Adult;Age Factors;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging;Atrial Fibrillation/epidemiology/ genetics;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Hyperpolarization-Activated Cyclic Nucleotide-Gated Channels/ genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Muscle Proteins/ genetics;Potassium Channels/ genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics
Phosphodiesterase-4D knock-out and RNA interference-mediated knock-down enhance memory and increase hippocampal neurogenesis via increased cAMP signaling	Y. F. Li, et al.	2011	21209202	Phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) plays an important role in mediating memory via the control of intracellular cAMP signaling; inhibition of PDE4 enhances memory. However, development of PDE4 inhibitors as memory enhancers has been hampered by their major side effect of emesis. PDE4 has four subtypes (PDE4A-D) consisting of 25 splice variants. Mice deficient in PDE4D displayed memory enhancement in radial arm maze, water maze, and object recognition tests. These effects were mimicked by repeated treatment with rolipram in wild-type mice. In addition, similarly as rolipram-treated wild-type mice, PDE4D-deficient mice also displayed increased hippocampal neurogenesis and phosphorylated cAMP response element-binding protein (pCREB). Furthermore, microinfusion of lentiviral vectors that contained microRNAs (miRNAs) targeting long-form PDE4D isoforms into bilateral dentate gyri of the mouse hippocampus downregulated PDE4D4 and PDE4D5, enhanced memory, and increased hippocampal neurogenesis and pCREB. Finally, while rolipram and PDE4D deficiency shortened alpha2 adrenergic receptor-mediated anesthesia, a surrogate measure of emesis, miRNA-mediated PDE4D knock-down in the hippocampus did not. The present results suggest that PDE4D, in particular long-form PDE4D, plays a critical role in the mediation of memory and hippocampal neurogenesis, which are mediated by cAMP/CREB signaling; reduced expression of PDE4D, or at least PDE4D4 and PDE4D5, in the hippocampus enhances memory but appears not to cause emesis. These novel findings will aid in the development of PDE4 subtype- or variant-selective inhibitors for treatment of disorders involving impaired cognition, including Alzheimer's disease.	Analysis of Variance;Animals;Avoidance Learning/drug effects/physiology;Bromodeoxyuridine/metabolism;CREB-Binding Protein/metabolism;Cyclic AMP/ metabolism;Cyclic Nucleotide Phosphodiesterases, Type 4/ deficiency;Exploratory Behavior/drug effects/physiology;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects/genetics;Green Fluorescent Proteins/genetics;Hippocampus/ cytology/drug effects/metabolism;Male;Maze Learning/drug effects/physiology;Memory/drug effects/ physiology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Inbred ICR;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/pharmacology;Nerve Tissue Proteins/metabolism;Neurogenesis/drug effects/genetics/ physiology;Neuropsychological Tests;Phosphodiesterase 4 Inhibitors/pharmacology;RNA Interference/ physiology;Recognition (Psychology)/drug effects/physiology;Rolipram/pharmacology;SOXB1 Transcription Factors/metabolism;Signal Transduction/drug effects/genetics/ physiology;Time Factors
MiR-145 mediates zebrafish hepatic outgrowth through progranulin A signaling	Y. W. Li, et al.	2017	28531199	MicroRNAs (miRs) are mRNA-regulatory molecules that fine-tune gene expression and modulate both processes of development and tumorigenesis. Our previous studies identified progranulin A (GrnA) as a growth factor which induces zebrafish hepatic outgrowth through MET signaling. We also found that miR-145 is one of potential fine-tuning regulators of GrnA involved in embryonic hepatic outgrowth. The low level of miR-145 seen in hepatocarinogenesis has been shown to promote pathological liver growth. However, little is known about the regulatory mechanism of miR-145 in embryonic liver development. In this study, we demonstrate a significant decrease in miR-145 expression during hepatogenesis. We modulate miR-145 expression in zebrafish embryos by injection with a miR-145 mimic or a miR-145 hairpin inhibitor. Altered embryonic liver outgrowth is observed in response to miR-145 expression modulation. We also confirm a critical role of miR-145 in hepatic outgrowth by using whole-mount in situ hybridization. Loss of miR-145 expression in embryos results in hepatic cell proliferation, and vice versa. Furthermore, we demonstrate that GrnA is a target of miR-145 and GrnA-induced MET signaling is also regulated by miR-145 as determined by luciferase reporter assay and gene expression analysis, respectively. In addition, co-injection of GrnA mRNA with miR-145 mimic or MO-GrnA with miR-145 inhibitor restores the liver defects caused by dysregulation of miR-145 expression. In conclusion, our findings suggest an important role of miR-145 in regulating GrnA-dependent hepatic outgrowth in zebrafish embryonic development.	
miRNA-155 upregulation and complement factor H deficits in Down's syndrome	Y. Y. Li, et al.	2012	22182977	Down's syndrome, a congenital disorder associated with cognitive impairment and early-onset Alzheimer's disease, is a progressive genetic pathology resulting from full or partial triplication of chromosome 21. Down's syndrome brain is typified by activated microglia, increases in inflammatory signaling, and an aberrant immune system. In these studies, a screening of micro-RNA (miRNA) from Down's syndrome brain and peripheral tissues indicated an upregulation of a chromosome 21-encoded miRNA-155 and a decrease in the abundance of the miRNA-155 mRNA target complement factor H (CFH), an important repressor of the innate immune response. Stressed primary human neuronal-glial cells indicated both miRNA-155 increase and CFH downregulation, an effect that was reversed using anti-miRNA-155. These findings suggest that immunopathological deficits associated with Down's syndrome can, in part, be explained by a generalized miRNA-155-mediated downregulation of CFH that may contribute to both brain and systemic immune pathology.	Adult;Brain/metabolism;Complement Factor H/ genetics/metabolism;Down Syndrome/ genetics/metabolism;Down-Regulation;Female;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Neuroglia/metabolism;Neurons/metabolism;Up-Regulation
Differential expression of miRNA-146a-regulated inflammatory genes in human primary neural, astroglial and microglial cells	Y. Y. Li, et al.	2011	21640790	MicroRNA-146a (miRNA-146a) is an inducible, 22 nucleotide, small RNA over-expressed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. Up-regulated miRNA-146a targets several inflammation-related and membrane-associated messenger RNAs (mRNAs), including those encoding complement factor-H (CFH) and the interleukin-1 receptor associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1), resulting in significant decreases in their expression (p<0.05, ANOVA). In this study we assayed miRNA-146a, CFH, IRAK-1 and tetraspanin-12 (TSPAN12), abundances in primary human neuronal-glial (HNG) co-cultures, in human astroglial (HAG) and microglial (HMG) cells stressed with Abeta42 peptide and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha). The results indicate a consistent inverse relationship between miRNA-146a and CFH, IRAK-1 and TSPAN12 expression levels, and indicate that HNG, HAG and HMG cell types each respond differently to Abeta42-peptide+TNFalpha-triggered stress. While the strongest miRNA-146a-IRAK-1 response was found in HAG cells, the largest miRNA-146a-TSPAN12 response was found in HNG cells, and the most significant miRNA-146a-CFH changes were found in HMG cells, the 'resident scavenging macrophages' of the brain.	Amyloid beta-Peptides/physiology;Astrocytes/pathology/ physiology;Cells, Cultured;Coculture Techniques;Complement Factor H/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Inflammation Mediators/ physiology;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics/physiology;Microglia/pathology/ physiology;Neurons/pathology/ physiology;Peptide Fragments/physiology;Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha/physiology
Increased expression of miRNA-146a in Alzheimer's disease transgenic mouse models	Y. Y. Li, et al.	2011	20934487	A mouse and human brain-enriched micro-RNA-146a (miRNA-146a) is known to be important in modulating the innate immune response and inflammatory signaling in certain immunological and brain cell types. In this study we examined miRNA-146a levels in early-, moderate- and late-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD) neocortex and hippocampus, in several human primary brain and retinal cell lines, and in 5 different transgenic mouse models of AD including Tg2576, TgCRND8, PSAPP, 3xTg-AD and 5xFAD. Inducible expression of miRNA-146a was found to be significantly up-regulated in a primary co-culture of human neuronal-glial (HNG) cells stressed using interleukin1-beta (IL-1beta), and this up-regulation was quenched using specific NF-small ka, CyrillicB inhibitors including curcumin. Expression of miRNA-146a correlated with senile plaque density and synaptic pathology in Tg2576 and in 5xFAD transgenic mouse models used in the study of this common neurodegenerative disorder.	Age Factors;Alzheimer Disease/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/genetics;Animals;Cell Line, Transformed;Disease Models, Animal;Enzyme Inhibitors/pharmacology;Hippocampus/ metabolism;Humans;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Mutation;Neocortex/ metabolism;Presenilin-1/genetics;Transfection/methods;Up-Regulation/drug effects/ genetics;tau Proteins/genetics
miR-142-5p Disrupts Neuronal Morphogenesis Underlying Porcine Hemagglutinating Encephalomyelitis Virus Infection by Targeting Ulk1	Z. Li, et al.	2017	28516065	Porcine hemagglutinating encephalomyelitis virus (PHEV) invades the central nervous system (CNS) and causes neurodegenerative disease in suckling piglets, but the understanding of its neuropathogenicity for neurological dysfunction remains limited. Here, we report that miR-142-5p is localized to neurons and negatively regulates neuronal morphogenesis in porcine hemagglutinating encephalomyelitis (PHE). This phenotype was mediated by miR-142-5p inhibition of an mRNA encoding unc-51-like-kinase1 (Ulk1), which controls axon outgrowth and dendrite formation. Modulating miR-142-5p activity by microRNA mimics or inhibitors induced neurodegeneration, including stunted axon elongation, unstable dendritic spine formation, and irregular swelling and disconnection in neurites. Relieving Ulk1 mRNA repression in primary cortical neurons by miR-142-5p antagomirs or replication-deficient adenoviruses encoding Ulk1 (Ad5-Ulk1), which improved rescue of nerve injury, restricted viral replication, and increased survival rate in mice underlying PHEV infection. In contrast, disrupting Ulk1 in RNAi-expressing neurons mostly led to significantly shortened axon elongation and/or an abnormally large number of branched dendrites. Taken together, we demonstrated that the abnormal neuronal morphogenesis underlying PHEV infection was mainly caused by functional mRNA repression of the miR-142-5p target Ulk1. Our data revealed that PHEV adapted to use spatiotemporal control of host microRNAs to invade CNS, and provided new insights into the virus-associated neurological dysfunction microenvironment.	Porcine hemagglutinating encephalomyelitis virus;Ulk1;miR-142-5p;neuronal morphogenesis;neurotropic virus
The FTD/ALS-associated RNA-binding protein TDP-43 regulates the robustness of neuronal specification through microRNA-9a in Drosophila	Z. Li, et al.	2013	23042786	TDP-43 is an evolutionarily conserved RNA-binding protein currently under intense investigation for its involvement in the molecular pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). TDP-43 is normally localized in the nucleus, but translocated to the cytoplasm in diseased neurons. The endogenous functions of TDP-43 in the nervous system remain poorly understood. Here, we show that the loss of Drosophila TDP-43 (dTDP-43) results in an increased production of sensory bristles and sensory organ precursor (SOP) cells on the notum of some but not all flies. The location of ectopic SOPs varies among mutant flies. The penetrance of this novel phenotype is dependent on the gender and sensitive to environmental influences. A similar SOP phenotype was also observed on the wing and in the embryos. Overexpression of dTDP-43 causes both loss and ectopic production of SOPs. Ectopic expression of ALS-associated mutant human TDP-43 (hTDP-43(M337V) and hTDP-43(Q331K)) produces a less severe SOP phenotype than hTDP-43(WT), indicating a partial loss of function of mutant hTDP-43. In dTDP-43 mutants, miR-9a expression is significantly reduced. Genetic interaction studies further support the notion that dTDP-43 acts through miR-9a to control the precision of SOP specification. These findings reveal a novel role for endogenous TDP-43 in neuronal specification and suggest that the FTD/ALS-associated RNA-binding protein TDP-43 functions to ensure the robustness of genetic control programs.	Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/genetics/metabolism;Animals;Animals, Genetically Modified;DNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Drosophila/ genetics/ metabolism;Epistasis, Genetic;Female;Frontotemporal Dementia/genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Mutation;Neurons/ metabolism;Phenotype;Sex Factors
Ethylene-insensitive3 is a senescence-associated gene that accelerates age-dependent leaf senescence by directly repressing miR164 transcription in Arabidopsis	Z. Li, et al.	2013	24064769	Numerous endogenous and environmental signals regulate the intricate and highly orchestrated process of plant senescence. Ethylene is a well-known inducer of senescence, including fruit ripening and flower and leaf senescence. However, the underlying molecular mechanism of ethylene-induced leaf senescence remains to be elucidated. Here, we examine ethylene-insensitive3 (EIN3), a key transcription factor in ethylene signaling, and find that EIN3 is a functional senescence-associated gene. Constitutive overexpression or temporary activation of EIN3 is sufficient to accelerate leaf senescence symptoms. Conversely, loss of EIN3 and EIN3-Like1 (its close homolog) function leads to a delay in age-dependent and ethylene-, jasmonic acid-, or dark-induced leaf senescence. We further found that EIN3 acts downstream of ORESARA2 (ORE2)/ORE3/EIN2 to repress miR164 transcription and upregulate the transcript levels of ORE1/NAC2, a target gene of miR164. EIN3 directly binds to the promoters of microRNA164 (miR164), and this binding activity progressively increases during leaf ageing. Genetic analysis revealed that overexpression of miR164 or knockout of ORE1/NAC2 represses EIN3-induced early-senescence phenotypes. Collectively, our study defines a continuation of the signaling pathway involving EIN2-EIN3-miR164-NAC2 in regulating leaf senescence and provides a mechanistic insight into how ethylene promotes the progression of leaf senescence in Arabidopsis thaliana.	Arabidopsis/drug effects/ genetics/physiology;Arabidopsis Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Cell Aging;Cyclopentanes/pharmacology;Darkness;Ethylenes/pharmacology;Gene Expression Regulation, Plant;Genes, Reporter;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Models, Biological;Mutation;Nuclear Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Oxylipins/pharmacology;Plant Growth Regulators/ pharmacology;Plant Leaves/drug effects/physiology;Promoter Regions, Genetic/genetics;Protein Binding;Receptors, Cell Surface/ genetics/metabolism;Repressor Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Time Factors;Transcription Factors/ genetics/metabolism;Transcription, Genetic
LSD 2.0: an update of the leaf senescence database	Z. Li, et al.	2014	24185698	This manuscript describes an update of the leaf senescence database (LSD) previously featured in the 2011 NAR Database Issue. LSD provides comprehensive information concerning senescence-associated genes (SAGs) and their corresponding mutants. We have made extensive annotations for these SAGs through both manual and computational approaches. Recently, we updated LSD to a new version LSD 2.0 (http://www.eplantsenescence.org/), which contains 5356 genes and 322 mutants from 44 species, an extension from the previous version containing 1145 genes and 154 mutants from 21 species. In the current version, we also included several new features: (i) Primer sequences retrieved based on experimental evidence or designed for high-throughput analysis were added; (ii) More than 100 images of Arabidopsis SAG mutants were added; (iii) Arabidopsis seed information obtained from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) was integrated; (iv) Subcellular localization information of SAGs in Arabidopsis mined from literature or generated from the SUBA3 program was presented; (v) Quantitative Trait Loci information was added with links to the original database and (vi) New options such as primer and miRNA search for database query were implemented. The updated database will be a valuable and informative resource for basic research of leaf senescence and for the manipulation of traits of agronomically important plants.	Arabidopsis/genetics;Cell Aging;DNA Primers;Databases, Genetic;Genes, Plant;Internet;Molecular Sequence Annotation;Mutation;Phenotype;Plant Leaves/ genetics/ growth & development
MicroRNA-153 negatively regulates the expression of amyloid precursor protein and amyloid precursor-like protein 2	C. Liang, et al.	2012	22510281	Increased expression of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a crucial risk factor of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Amyloid precursor-like protein 2 (APLP2), a homologue of APP, is also suggested to participate in AD pathogenesis. Accumulating evidence suggest the regulatory role of microRNA on AD-related genes. Here we showed that the levels of miR-153 were significantly decreased at early- and late-stage of AD in APPswe/PSDeltaE9 murine model. Moreover, a binding site of miR-153 on APP and APLP2-3'UTR was identified, respectively, by luciferase assay. Gain and loss of function experiments demonstrated that miR-153 suppressed the expression of APP and APLP2. Using miR-153 transgenic mouse model, we testified that miR-153 downregulated the expression of APP and APLP2 protein in vivo. Furthermore, closely related expression patterns of miR-153 and APP/APLP2 during brain development indicated a physiological regulation role of miR-153 on the two genes. In a neuronal cell line treated with Abeta(42) peptides and H(2)O(2,) the levels of miR-153 varied during time-course leading to corresponding changes of APLP2 protein, indicating Abeta peptides and oxidative stress influence the expression of miR-153. Thus, miR-153 contributes to post-transcriptional regulation of APP/APLP2, suggesting a possible role for miR-153 in neuro-pathological conditions.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/ metabolism;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/ antagonists & inhibitors/ biosynthesis;Animals;Cell Line, Tumor;Disease Models, Animal;Down-Regulation/genetics;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ physiology
MiR-138 induces renal carcinoma cell senescence by targeting EZH2 and is downregulated in human clear cell renal cell carcinoma	J. Liang, et al.	2013	24406044	MiR-138 has been shown to be downregulated in various cancers, including head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) and clear cell renal carcinoma (ccRCC). In the present study, we aimed to reveal the mechanism of miR-138 induction of senescence in renal carcinoma cells and identify its specific target genes. We used qRT-PCR to analyze miR-138 expression levels in renal carcinoma cell lines and ccRCC samples. The activity of beta-galactosidase was measured for functional analysis after miR-138 mimic transfection. To identify the targets of miR-138, we used three types of target prediction software to determine three candidate target genes. Furthermore, a 3'UTR luciferase assay was performed. Western blotting was used to detect the protein expression levels of candidate target genes. Additionally, knockdown of EZH2 by its siRNA was performed. The expression of miR-138 was downregulated in RCC cells lines and in tumor samples compared with their controls. Transfection of miR-138 mimic induced SN-12 cell senescence, decreased the protein expression of EZH2, and increased the protein expression of P16. Furthermore, miR-138 decreased the 3'UTR luciferase activity of EZH2. The knockdown of EZH2 by siRNA induced SN-12 cell senescence, decreased the protein expression level of EZH2, and increased the protein expression of P16. MiR-138 is a tumor-suppressor miRNA in ccRCC that induces SN-12 cell senescence by downregulating EZH2 expression and upregulating P16 expression.	3' Untranslated Regions;Carcinoma, Renal Cell/ genetics/ pathology/therapy;Cell Aging/genetics;Down-Regulation;Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2 Protein;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Humans;Kidney Neoplasms/ genetics/ pathology/therapy;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;Neoplasm Proteins/biosynthesis/genetics;Polycomb Repressive Complex 2/ genetics;RNA, Small Interfering/administration & dosage/genetics;Sirtuin 1/genetics;Telomerase/genetics;Transfection
Integrative analysis of miRNA and mRNA paired expression profiling of primary fibroblast derived from diabetic foot ulcers reveals multiple impaired cellular functions	L. Liang, et al.	2016	27607190	Diabetic foot ulcers (DFUs) are one of the major complications of diabetes. Its molecular pathology remains poorly understood, impeding the development of effective treatments. Although it has been established that multiple cell types, including fibroblasts, keratinocytes, macrophages, and endothelial cells, all contribute to inhibition of healing, less is known regarding contributions of individual cell type. Thus, we generated primary fibroblasts from nonhealing DFUs and evaluated their cellular and molecular properties in comparison to nondiabetic foot fibroblasts (NFFs). Specifically, we analyzed both micro-RNA and mRNA expression profiles of primary DFU fibroblasts. Paired genomic analyses identified a total of 331 reciprocal miRNA-mRNA pairs including 21 miRNAs (FC > 2.0) along with 239 predicted target genes (FC > 1.5) that are significantly and differentially expressed. Of these, we focused on three miRNAs (miR-21-5p, miR-34a-5p, miR-145-5p) that were induced in DFU fibroblasts as most differentially regulated. The involvement of these microRNAs in wound healing was investigated by testing the expression of their downstream targets as well as by quantifying cellular behaviors in prospectively collected and generated cell lines from 15 patients (seven DFUF and eight NFF samples). We found large number of downstream targets of miR-21-5p, miR-34a-5p, miR-145-5p to be coordinately regulated in mRNA profiles, which was confirmed by quantitative real-time PCR. Pathway analysis on paired miRNA-mRNA profiles predicted inhibition of cell movement and cell proliferation, as well as activation of cell differentiation and senescence in DFU fibroblasts, which was confirmed by cellular assays. We concluded that induction of miR-21-5p, miR-34a-5p, miR-145-5p in DFU dermal fibroblasts plays an important role in impairing multiple cellular functions, thus contributing to overall inhibition of healing in DFUs.	
Epigenetic Control of MicroRNA Expression and Aging	R. Liang, et al.	2009	19881911	MicroRNAs are a major category among the noncoding RNA fraction that negatively regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level, by either degrading the target messages or inhibiting their translation. MicroRNAs may be referred to as 'dimmer switches' of gene expression, because of their ability to repress gene expression without completely silencing it. Whether through up-regulating specific groups of microRNAs to suppress unwanted gene expressions, or by down-regulating other microRNAs whose target genes' expression is necessary for cellular function, such as cell proliferation, apoptosis, or differentiation, these regulatory RNAs play pivotal roles in a wide variety of cellular processes. The equilibrium between these two groups of microRNA expressions largely determines the function of particular cell types. Our recent results with several model systems show that upon aging, there is a trend of up-regulation of microRNA expression, with concomitant inverse down-regulation of target genes. This review addresses molecular mechanisms that may provide the underlying control for this up-regulating trend, focusing on activation by various microRNAs' own promoters, through binding with pivotal transcription factors, stress response, methylation of clustered DNA domains, etc. Thus, epigenomic control of aging may be due in part to heightened promoter activation of unwanted microRNA expressions, which in turn down-regulate their target gene products. Overriding and dampening the activation of these noncoding RNAs may prove to be a new frontier for future research, to delay aging and extend healthy life-span.	MicroRNA;promoter;transcription factor;transcription factor binding site.
Post-transcriptional regulation of IGF1R by key microRNAs in long-lived mutant mice	R. Liang, et al.	2011	21967153	Long-lived mutant mice, both Ames dwarf and growth hormone receptor gene-disrupted or knockout strains, exhibit heightened cognitive robustness and altered IGF1 signaling in the brain. Here, we report, in both these long-lived mice, that three up-regulated lead microRNAs, miR-470, miR-669b, and miR-681, are involved in posttranscriptional regulation of genes pertinent to growth hormone/IGF1 signaling. All three are most prominently localized in the hippocampus and correspond to reduced expression of key IGF1 signaling genes: IGF1, IGF1R, and PI3 kinase. The decline in these genes' expression translates into decreased phosphorylation of downstream molecules AKT and FoxO3a. Cultures transfected with either miR-470, miR-669b, or miR-681 show repressed endogenous expression of all three genes of the IGF1 signaling axis, most significantly IGF1R, while other similarly up-regulated microRNAs, including let-7g and miR-509, do not induce the same levels of repression. Transduction study in IGF1-responsive cell cultures shows significantly reduced IGF1R expression, and AKT to some extent, most notably by miR-681. This is accompanied by decreased levels of downstream phosphorylated forms of AKT and FoxO3a upon IGF1 stimulation. Suppression of IGF1R by the three microRNAs is further validated by IGF1R 3'UTR reporter assays. Taken together, our results suggest that miR-470, miR-669b, and miR-681 are all functionally able to suppress IGF1R and AKT, two upstream genes controlling FoxO3a phosphorylation status. Their up-regulation in growth hormone signaling-deficient mutant mouse brain suggests reduced IGF1 signaling at the posttranscriptional level, for numerous gains of neuronal function in these long-lived mice.	Animals;Cell Proliferation;Forkhead Box Protein O3;Forkhead Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;Gene Deletion;Gene Expression Regulation;Growth Hormone/ deficiency/genetics;Hippocampus/cytology/ metabolism;Insulin-Like Growth Factor I/genetics/metabolism;Longevity;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases/genetics/metabolism;Phosphorylation;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/genetics/metabolism;Receptor, IGF Type 1/ deficiency/genetics;Signal Transduction/ genetics;Transfection
miRNA-34b is directly involved in the aging of macrophages	W. Liang, et al.	2016	27538833	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of short noncoding RNA that play important regulatory roles in living organisms. These RNA molecules are implicated in the development and progression of malignant diseases such as cancer and are closely associated with cell aging. Findings demonstrating that microRNA is associated with aging in macrophages have nevertheless rarely been reported. AIMS: This study's objective was to investigate if miRNA-34 is linked to aging process of macrophages. METHODS: We built a cell aging model in mouse RAW264.7 macrophages using D-galactose and determined the expression levels of miRNA-34a, miRNA-34b, and miRNA-34c in aging and normal macrophages by fluorescence quantitative polymerase chain reaction (q-PCR). We predicted a target gene of miRNA-34 using biological information techniques and constructed the recombinant plasmid pGL3-E2f3 for the putative target gene E2f3. RESULTS: The expression level of miRNA-34b was 5.23 times higher in aging macrophages than in normal macrophages. The luciferase activity decreased by nearly 50 % in cells transfected with miRNA-34b mimics, while no significant decrease in luciferase activity was noted in cells transfected with the miRNA-34b inhibitor or unrelated sequences. DISCUSSION: Our findings provide the groundwork for further research into the molecular mechanisms whereby miRNA-34b regulates the aging of macrophages. CONCLUSIONS: miRNA-34b is associated with the aging of RAW264.7 macrophages, and E2f3 is a target gene of miRNA-34b.	Aging;Macrophages;MicroRNA;Target gene
Histone demethylase retinoblastoma binding protein 2 is overexpressed in hepatocellular carcinoma and negatively regulated by hsa-miR-212	X. Liang, et al.	2013	23922798	BACKGROUND: The H3K4 demethylase retinoblastoma binding protein 2 (RBP2) is involved in the pathogenesis of gastric cancer, but its role and regulation in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is unknown. We determined the function of RBP2 and its regulation in HCC in vitro and in human tissues. METHODS: We analyzed gene expression in 20 specimens each of human HCC and normal liver tissue by quantitative real-time PCR and immunohistochemistry. Proliferation was analyzed by foci formation and senescence by beta-galactosidase staining. Promoter activity was detected by luciferase reporter assay. RESULTS: The expression of RBP2 was stronger in cancerous than non-cancerous tissues, but that of its binding microRNA, Homo sapiens miR-212 (hsa-miR-212), showed an opposite pattern. SiRNA knockdown of RBP2 significantly upregulated cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors (CDKIs), with suppression of HCC cell proliferation and induction of senescence. Overexpression of hsa-miR-212 suppressed RBP2 expression, with inhibited cell proliferation and induced cellular senescence, which coincided with upregulated CDKIs; with low hsa-miR-212 expression, CDKIs were downregulated in HCC tissue. Inhibition of hsa-miR-212 expression upregulated RBP2 expression. Luciferase reporter assay detected the direct binding of hsa-miR-212 to the RBP2 3' UTR. CONCLUSIONS: RBP2 is overexpressed in HCC and negatively regulated by hsa-miR-212. The hsa-miR-212-RBP2-CDKI pathway may be important in the pathogenesis of HCC.	Adult;Aged;Carcinoma, Hepatocellular/genetics/ metabolism;Female;Humans;Immunohistochemistry;Liver;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Retinoblastoma-Binding Protein 2/genetics/ metabolism
Apolipoprotein E metabolism and functions in brain and its role in Alzheimer's disease	F. Liao, et al.	2017	27922847	PURPOSE OF REVIEW: APOE4 genotype is the strongest genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease. Prevailing evidence suggests that amyloid beta plays a critical role in Alzheimer's disease. The objective of this article is to review the recent findings about the metabolism of apolipoprotein E (ApoE) and amyloid beta and other possible mechanisms by which ApoE contributes to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. RECENT FINDINGS: ApoE isoforms have differential effects on amyloid beta metabolism. Recent studies demonstrated that ApoE-interacting proteins, such as ATP-binding cassette A1 (ABCA1) and LDL receptor, may be promising therapeutic targets for Alzheimer's disease treatment. Activation of liver X receptor and retinoid X receptor pathway induces ABCA1 and other genes, leading to amyloid beta clearance. Inhibition of the negative regulators of ABCA1, such as microRNA-33, also induces ABCA1 and decreases the levels of ApoE and amyloid beta. In addition, genetic inactivation of an E3 ubiquitin ligase, myosin regulatory light chain interacting protein, increases LDL receptor levels and inhibits amyloid accumulation. Although amyloid beta-dependent pathways have been extensively investigated, there have been several recent studies linking ApoE with vascular function, neuroinflammation, metabolism, synaptic plasticity, and transcriptional regulation. For example, ApoE was identified as a ligand for a microglial receptor, TREM2, and studies suggested that ApoE may affect the TREM2-mediated microglial phagocytosis. SUMMARY: Emerging data suggest that ApoE affects several amyloid beta-independent pathways. These underexplored pathways may provide new insights into Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis. However, it will be important to determine to what extent each mechanism contributes to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.	
Redundant miR-3077-5p and miR-705 mediate the shift of mesenchymal stem cell lineage commitment to adipocyte in osteoporosis bone marrow	L. Liao, et al.	2013	23598412	During the process of aging, especially for postmenopausal females, the cell lineage commitment of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) shift to adipocyte in bone marrow, resulting in osteoporosis. However, the cell-intrinsic mechanism of this cell lineage commitment switch is poorly understood. As the post-transcription regulation by microRNAs (miRNAs) has a critical role in MSCs differentiation and bone homeostasis, we performed comprehensive miRNAs profiling and found miR-705 and miR-3077-5p were significantly enhanced in MSCs from osteoporosis bone marrow. Both miR-705 and miR-3077-5p acted as inhibitors of MSCs osteoblast differentiation and promoters of adipocyte differentiation, by targeting on the 3'untranslated region (3'UTR) of HOXA10 and RUNX2 mRNA separately. Combined inhibition of miR-705 and miR-3077-5p rescued the cell lineage commitment disorder of MSCs through restoring HOXA10 and RUNX2 protein level. Furthermore, we found excessive TNFalpha and reactive oxygen species caused by estrogen deficiency led to the upregulation of both miRNAs through NF-kappaB pathway. In conclusion, our findings showed that redundant miR-705 and miR-3077-5p synergistically mediated the shift of MSCs cell lineage commitment to adipocyte in osteoporosis bone marrow, providing new insight into the etiology of osteoporosis at the post-transcriptional level. Moreover, the rescue of MSCs lineage commitment disorder by regulating miRNAs expression suggested a novel potential therapeutic target for osteoporosis as well as stem cell-mediated regenerative medicine.	3' Untranslated Regions;Adipocytes/ cytology;Adipogenesis;Animals;Bone Marrow Cells/ cytology;Cell Lineage;Cells, Cultured;Core Binding Factor Alpha 1 Subunit/genetics/metabolism;Female;Homeodomain Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ cytology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/ metabolism;NF-kappa B/metabolism;Osteoporosis/metabolism/pathology;Promoter Regions, Genetic;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha/metabolism
TDB protects vascular endothelial cells against oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion-induced injury by targeting miR-34a to increase Bcl-2 expression	L. X. Liao, et al.	2016	27885275	Prolonged ischemia can result in apoptotic death of vascular endothelial cells and lead to ischemic vascular diseases including vascular dementia, arteriosclerosis and brain oedema. Finding protective strategies to prevent this is therefore an urgent mission. Recent studies have shown that dysregulation of microRNAs (miRNAs) can lead to imbalance of Bcl-2 family proteins and mitochondrial dysfunction, leading to further damage of vascular cells under ischemic conditions. However, whether miRNAs can be used as a drug target for treating vascular diseases is not fully understood. In this study, we observed that the natural product 2,4,5-trihydroxybenzaldehyde (TDB) could effectively inhibit vascular cell apoptosis following oxygen-glucose deprivation/reperfusion (OGD/R) by maintaining mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and suppressing activation of the mitochondria-dependent caspase-9/3 apoptosis pathway. Furthermore, we identified miR-34a, a crucial negative regulator of Bcl-2, as a target for the protective effect of TDB on vascular cells. TDB-induced suppression of miR-34a resulted in a significant upregulation of Bcl-2 protein, MMP maintenance, and the survival of vascular cells following OGD/R. Our findings suggest that targeting miR-34a with the natural product TDB may provide a novel strategy for the treatment of ischemic vascular injuries, and demonstrate the therapeutic potential in targeting miRNAs using appropriate small molecules.	
MicroRNA-328a regulates water maze performance in PTZ-kindled rats	Y. Liao, et al.	2016	27444122	The down-regulation of microRNA-328a (miR-328a) in pentylenetetrazole (PTZ)-kindled rats with memory impairment was demonstrated in our previous study, while any contribution of miR-328a to cognitive dysfunction of PTZ-kindled rats remains unknown. In this study we have investigated the effect and the underlying mechanism of miR-328a on the cognitive function in PTZ-kindled rats. 48 SD male rats were divided into 4 groups as follows: a PTZ kindled group, a miR-328a antagomir group, an antagomir-control group, and a sham group (n=12 for each). All rats except those from the sham group were treated with PTZ 14 times at intervals of 48h to establish the temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) models, and miR-328a antagomir was given to the antagomir group as a treatment by lateral-ventricle injection the day after the first injection of PTZ. Morris water maze (MWM) test was performed to assay their learning and memory abilities. The down-regulation of miR-328a in the PTZ group was confirmed using RT-qPCR and the expression of miR-328a was diminished after antagomir treatment (P<0.05). In the probe test of water maze, the time and distance of the PTZ group were both shorter than those of the sham group (P<0.05), and those of the antagomir-control group were both longer than those of the antagomir group (P<0.05). In addition, we found that with the down-regulation of miR-328a, the levels of Beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme (BACE), which is a bioinformatics-predicted target of miR-328a, were up-regulated. These findings suggest that miR-328a may play a role in memory dysfunction in PTZ-kindled rats by regulating the BACE levels and this links the PTZ model with Alzheimer's disease.	Alzheimer's disease;Bace;Cognitive function;Epilepsy;microRNA-328a
Let-7g improves multiple endothelial functions through targeting transforming growth factor-beta and SIRT-1 signaling	Y. C. Liao, et al.	2014	24291274	OBJECTIVES: The present study aimed to explore the role of microribonucleic acid (miRNA) Let-7g in regulating endothelial functions. BACKGROUND: Derangement of miRNAs is implicated in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases. Because the transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta pathway plays a regulatory role in endothelial functions, miRNAs targeted at TGF-beta signal cascade might affect vascular health. METHODS: Bioinformatics software predicted that Let-7g can influence the TGF-beta pathway by targeting 3 genes. The Let-7g's effects on multiple endothelial functions were first tested in endothelial cells (ECs) and then in apolipoprotein E knockout mice. Blood samples from lacunar stroke patients were also examined to further support Let-7g's effects on human subjects. RESULTS: Let-7g was experimentally confirmed to knock down the THBS1, TGFBR1, and SMAD2 genes in the TGF-beta pathway. PAI-I, one of the downstream effectors of the TGF-beta pathway, was also down-regulated by Let-7g. Let-7g decreased EC inflammation and monocyte adhesion and increased angiogenesis via the TGF-beta pathway. Furthermore, Let-7g reduced EC senescence through increasing SIRT-1 protein. Venous injection of Let-7g inhibitor into apolipoprotein E knockout mice caused overgrowth of vascular intima-media, overexpression of PAI-1, increased macrophage infiltration, and up-regulation of TGF-beta downstream genes in the carotid arteries. Let-7g's beneficial effects on EC were reduced, whereas the TGF-beta pathway was suppressed by ribonucleic acid interference. Restoration of the TGF-beta pathway also attenuated the effects of Let-7g overexpression. Low serum levels of Let-7g were associated with increased circulating PAI-1 levels. CONCLUSIONS: Decreased Let-7g levels impair endothelial function and increase the risks of cardiovascular diseases through targeting TGF-beta and SIRT-1 signaling.	Animals;Cardiovascular Diseases/genetics/metabolism/physiopathology;Disease Models, Animal;Endothelium, Vascular/metabolism/pathology/ physiopathology;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Polymerase Chain Reaction;RNA/ genetics;Signal Transduction;Sirtuin 1/biosynthesis/ genetics;Transforming Growth Factor beta/biosynthesis/ genetics;Vasodilation/ genetics;Let-7g;Pai-1;Sirt-1;TGF-beta pathway;endothelial function
Serum extracellular vesicle depletion processes affect release and infectivity of HIV-1 in culture	Z. Liao, et al.	2017	28566772	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are involved in intercellular communication and affect processes including immune and antiviral responses. Blood serum, a common cell culture medium component, is replete with EVs and must be depleted prior to EV-related experiments. The extent to which depletion processes deplete non-EV particles is incompletely understood, but depleted serum is associated with reduced viability and growth in cell culture. Here, we examined whether serum depleted by two methods affected HIV-1 replication. In cell lines, including HIV-1 latency models, increased HIV-1 production was observed, along with changes in cell behavior and viability. Add-back of ultracentrifuge pellets (enriched in EVs but possibly other particles) rescued baseline HIV-1 production. Primary cells were less sensitive to serum depletion processes. Virus produced under processed serum conditions was more infectious. Finally, changes in cellular metabolism, surface markers, and gene expression, but not miRNA profiles, were associated with depleted serum culture. In conclusion, depleted serum conditions have a substantial effect on HIV-1 production and infectivity. Dependence of cell cultures on "whole serum" must be examined carefully along with other experimental variables, keeping in mind that the effects of EVs may be accompanied by or confused with those of closely associated or physically similar particles.	
Unbiased Profile of MicroRNA Expression in Ascending Aortic Aneurysm Tissue Appoints Molecular Pathways Contributing to the Pathology	S. Licholai, et al.	2016	27234576	BACKGROUND: Complex etiopathogenesis of ascending aortic aneurysm suggests contribution of epigenetic mechanisms in its development. Several studies appointed microRNAs (miRs) as essential epigenetic factors in various human diseases; however, little is known about their role in ascending aortic aneurysm. Therefore, the aim of this study was to perform unbiased molecular screening of miRs expression in aneurysmal tissue and establish their functions on a transcriptional level. METHODS: Samples of ascending aortic tissue were obtained from 15 patients, and total RNA was isolated separately from aneurysmal and unaffected aortic tissue obtained from the same patient. Expression of the complete panel of human miRs was assessed by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Using bioinformatic tools, 13 genes were selected that were putatively regulated by overexpressed miRs. Expression level of transcripts were evaluated by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and correlated with their targeting miRs. RESULTS: Overexpression of 10 miRs distinguished aneurysmal tissue from the unchanged one. These miRs were involved in cell senescence (miR-191-5p), maintenance of vascular integrity (miR-126-3p and miR-374-5p), nitric oxide-dependent vascular relaxation (miR-21-5p), smooth muscle differentiation, and contractility (miR-145- 3p, miR-29c-3p, miR-133a-3p, miR-186-5p, miR-143-3p, and miR-24-3p), and correlated with abundance of its miR targets. CONCLUSIONS: Altered expression of particular miRs selectively in the affected tissue indicate their role as factors that trigger pathways of aneurysmal transformation. Limited reparative properties due to overexpression of miR-191 may play a crucial role for aneurysm enlargement, whereas nitric oxide-dependent relaxation of vascular smooth muscle mediated by miR-21 offers an attractive explanation of the aneurysm's initiation, and is confirmed in experimental conditions.	Aorta/pathology/surgery;Aortic Aneurysm, Thoracic/ genetics/pathology/surgery;Gene Expression Profiling/ methods;Gene Expression Regulation;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Muscle, Smooth, Vascular/metabolism;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction/methods;Reference Values;Sampling Studies;Specimen Handling
Analysis of changes in microRNA expression profiles in response to the troxerutin-mediated antioxidant effect in human dermal papilla cells	K. M. Lim, et al.	2015	25955790	Dermal papilla (DP) cells function as important regulators of the hair growth cycle. The loss of these cells is a primary cause of diseases characterized by hair loss, including alopecia, and evidence has revealed significantly increased levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in hair tissue and DP cells in the balding population. In the present study, troxerutin, a flavonoid derivative of rutin, was demonstrated to have a protective effect against H2O2-mediated cellular damage in human DP (HDP) cells. Biochemical assays revealed that pretreatment with troxerutin exerted a protective effect against H2O2-induced loss of cell viability and H2O2-induced cell death. Further experiments confirmed that troxerutin inhibited the H2O2-induced production of ROS and upregulation of senescence-associated beta-galactosidase activity. Using microRNA (miRNA) microarrays, the present study identified 24 miRNAs, which were differentially expressed in the troxerutin-pretreated, H2O2-treated HDP cells. Subsequent prediction using bioinformatics analysis revealed that the altered miRNAs were functionally involved in several cell signaling pathways, including the mitogen-activated protein kinase and WNT pathways. Overall, these results indicated that ROS-mediated cellular damage was inhibited by troxerutin and suggested that the use of troxerutin may be an effective approach in the treatment of alopecia.	Antioxidants/ pharmacology;Cell Line;Cell Survival/drug effects;Dermis/cytology/drug effects/metabolism;Hair Follicle/ cytology/drug effects/metabolism;Humans;Hydrogen Peroxide/metabolism;Hydroxyethylrutoside/ analogs & derivatives/pharmacology;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Transcriptome/ drug effects
Crystal structure of human polynucleotide phosphorylase: insights into its domain function in RNA binding and degradation	C. L. Lin, et al.	2012	22210891	Human polynucleotide phosphorylase (hPNPase) is a 3'-to-5' exoribonuclease that degrades specific mRNA and miRNA, and imports RNA into mitochondria, and thus regulates diverse physiological processes, including cellular senescence and homeostasis. However, the RNA-processing mechanism by hPNPase, particularly how RNA is bound via its various domains, remains obscure. Here, we report the crystal structure of an S1 domain-truncated hPNPase at a resolution of 2.1 A. The trimeric hPNPase has a hexameric ring-like structure formed by six RNase PH domains, capped with a trimeric KH pore. Our biochemical and mutagenesis studies suggest that the S1 domain is not critical for RNA binding, and conversely, that the conserved GXXG motif in the KH domain directly participates in RNA binding in hPNPase. Our studies thus provide structural and functional insights into hPNPase, which uses a KH pore to trap a long RNA 3' tail that is further delivered into an RNase PH channel for the degradation process. Structural RNA with short 3' tails are, on the other hand, transported but not digested by hPNPase.	Amino Acid Sequence;Crystallography, X-Ray;Exoribonucleases/ chemistry/genetics/metabolism;Humans;Models, Molecular;Molecular Sequence Data;Polyribonucleotide Nucleotidyltransferase/ chemistry/genetics/metabolism;Protein Binding;Protein Structure, Tertiary;RNA/ metabolism;Sequence Deletion
Targeted Knockdown of GDCH in Rice Leads to a Photorespiratory-Deficient Phenotype Useful as a Building Block for C4 Rice	H. Lin, et al.	2016	26903527	The glycine decarboxylase complex (GDC) plays a critical role in the photorespiratory C2 cycle of C3 species by recovering carbon following the oxygenation reaction of ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase. Loss of GDC from mesophyll cells (MCs) is considered a key early step in the evolution of C4 photosynthesis. To assess the impact of preferentially reducing GDC in rice MCs, we decreased the abundance of OsGDCH (Os10g37180) using an artificial microRNA (amiRNA) driven by a promoter that preferentially drives expression in MCs. GDC H- and P-proteins were undetectable in leaves of gdch lines. Plants exhibited a photorespiratory-deficient phenotype with stunted growth, accelerated leaf senescence, reduced chlorophyll, soluble protein and sugars, and increased glycine accumulation in leaves. Gas exchange measurements indicated an impaired ability to regenerate ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate in photorespiratory conditions. In addition, MCs of gdch lines exhibited a significant reduction in chloroplast area and coverage of the cell wall when grown in air, traits that occur during the later stages of C4 evolution. The presence of these two traits important for C4 photosynthesis and the non-lethal, down-regulation of the photorespiratory C2 cycle positively contribute to efforts to produce a C4 rice prototype.	Carbon Cycle;Cell Respiration;Chloroplasts/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Plant;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Glycine Decarboxylase Complex/genetics/ metabolism;Light;MicroRNAs/genetics;Oryza/enzymology/ genetics/physiology/radiation effects;Phenotype;Photosynthesis;Plant Leaves/enzymology/genetics/physiology/radiation effects;Plant Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Plants, Genetically Modified;Ribulose-Bisphosphate Carboxylase/genetics/metabolism;C4 rice;Glycine decarboxylase;Oryza sativa (rice);Photorespiration
Incorporation of VSV-G produces fusogenic plasma membrane vesicles capable of efficient transfer of bioactive macromolecules and mitochondria	H. P. Lin, et al.	2016	27165101	The objective of this study was to determine if plasma membrane vesicles (PMVs) could be exploited for efficient transfer of macro-biomolecules and mitochondria. PMVs were derived from mechanical extrusion, and made fusogenic (fPMVs) by incorporating the glycoprotein G of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV-G). Confocal microscopy examination revealed that cytoplasmic proteins and mitochondria were enclosed in PMVs as evidenced by tracing with cytoplasmically localized and mitochondria-targeted EGFP, respectively. However, no fluorescence signal was detected in PMVs from cells whose nucleus was labeled with an EGFP-tagged histone H2B. Consistently, qRT-PCR measurement showed that mRNA, miRNA and mitochondrial DNA decreased slightly; while nuclear DNA was not measureable. Further, Western blot analysis revealed that cytoplasmic and membrane-bound proteins fell inconspicuously while nuclear proteins were barely detecsle. In addition, fPMVs carrying cytoplamic DsRed proteins transduced about ~40 % of recipient cells. The transfer of protein was further confirmed by using the inducible Cre/loxP system. Mitochondria transfer was found in about 20 % recipient cells after incubation with fPMVs for 5 h. To verify the functionalities of transferred mitochondria, mitochodria-deficient HeLa cells (Rho0) were generated and cultivated with fPMVs. Cell enumeration demonstrated that adding fPMVs into culture media stimulated Rho0 cell growth by 100 % as compared to the control. Lastly, MitoTracker and JC-1 staining showed that transferred mitochondria maintained normal shape and membrane potential in Rho0 cells. This study established a time-saving and efficient approach to delivering proteins and mitochondria by using fPMVs, which would be helpful for finding a cure to mitochondria-associated diseases. Graphical abstract Schematic of the delivery of macro-biomolecules and organelles by fPMVs. VSV-G-expressing cells were extruded through a 3 mum polycarbonate membrane filter to generate fusogenic plasma membrane vesicles (fPMVs), which contain bioactive molecules and organelles but not the nucleus. fPMVs can be endocytosed by target cells, while the cargo is released due to low-pH induced membrane fusion. These nucleus-free fPMVs are efficient at delivery of cytoplasmic proteins and mitochondria, leading to recovery of mitochondrial biogenesis and proliferative ability in mitochondria-deficient cells.	Macro-biomolecules;Mitochondria;Plasma membrane vesicles;Rho0 cells;Vsv-g
MiR-135a Suppresses Calcification in Senescent VSMCs by Regulating KLF4/STAT3 Pathway	L. Lin, et al.	2016	26202084	Cellular function phenotype is regulated by various microRNAs (miRs), including miR-135a. However, how miR-135a is involved in the calcification in senescent vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) is not clear yet. In the present study, we first identified the significantly altered miRNAs in VSMCs, then performed consecutive passage culture of VSMCs and analyzed the expression of miR- 135a and calcification genes in the senescent phase. Next, the effects of the miR-135a inhibition on calcification and calcification genes were analyzed. The luciferase assay was used to validate the target protein of miR-135a. The western blotting was used to determine the effects of miR-135a on Kruppel-like factor 4 (KLF4) and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 protein (STAT3) expression, as well as the relationship between KLF4 and STAT3. Finally, the quantified cellular calcification was measured to examine the involvement of miR-135a, KLF4 and STAT3 in VSMCs calcification. Our results showed that miR-135a was significantly altered in VSMCs. Cell calcification and calcification genes were greatly altered by miR-135a inhibition. KLF4 was validated as the target RNA of miR-135a. Expression of KLF4 and STAT3 were both significantly decreased by over expressed miR-135a, while the inhibition of miR-135a and KLF4 siRNA both decreased the STAT3 protein levels. Moreover, the inhibition of miR-135a dramatically increased the calcium concentration, but co-treatment with KLF4 or STAT3 siRNA both decreased the calcium concentration. The present study identified miR-135a as a potential osteogenic differentiation suppressor in senescent VSMCs and revealed that KLF4/STAT3 pathway, at least partially, was involved in the mechanism.	Animals;Cell Aging/ physiology;Cells, Cultured;Kruppel-Like Transcription Factors/ physiology;Male;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Muscle, Smooth, Vascular/metabolism/pathology;Myocytes, Smooth Muscle/ metabolism/pathology;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;STAT3 Transcription Factor/ physiology;Signal Transduction/physiology;Vascular Calcification/ metabolism/pathology
MicroRNA34a induces apoptosis in PC12 cells by reducing Bcell lymphoma 2 and sirtuin1 expression	Q. Lin, et al.	2015	26252661	MicroRNA34a (miR34a) is a direct target of p53 and was reported to induce cell cycle arrest, apoptosis and senescence. Inhibition of the NADdependent deacetylase sirtuin1 (SIRT1) by miR34a leads to an increase in acetylated p53, which promotes cell apoptosis. Bcell lymphoma 2 (Bcl2) is also involved in apoptosis, and was originally characterized with respect to its role in controlling outer mitochondrial membrane integrity. The effect of miR34a in PC12 cells has not yet been reported. In the present study, it was hypothesized that Bcl2 and SIRT1 may be critical downstream targets of miR34a that participate in apoptosis induction. miR34a mimics and inhibitors were transfected into PC12 cells, and the apoptosis and proliferation rates were compared between groups. It was demonstrated that induction of miR34a promotes apoptosis and senescence, inhibits proliferation, and leads to marked alterations in SIRT1, Bcl12 and acetyl (ac)p53 expression. These data indicate that miR34a may be important in neuropathy.	Acetylation;Animals;Apoptosis/ genetics;Cell Aging;Cell Proliferation;Gene Expression Regulation;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Molecular Mimicry;Oligonucleotides/genetics/metabolism;PC12 Cells;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2/antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics/metabolism;Rats;Signal Transduction;Sirtuin 1/antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics/metabolism;Transfection;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ genetics/metabolism
Heme oxygenase-1 modulates microRNA expression in cultured astroglia: implications for chronic brain disorders	S. H. Lin, et al.	2015	25820186	BACKGROUND: Over-expression of the heme-degrading enzyme, heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) promotes iron deposition, mitochondrial damage, and autophagy in astrocytes and enhances the vulnerability of nearby neuronal constituents to oxidative injury. These neuropathological features and aberrant brain microRNA (miRNA) expression patterns have been implicated in the etiopathogeneses of various neurodevelopmental and aging-related neurodegenerative disorders. OBJECTIVE: To correlate glial HO-1 overexpression with altered miRNA patterns, which have been linked to the aforementioned "core" neuropathological features. METHODS: miRNA microchip assays were performed on HMOX1- and sham-transfected primary rat astroglia and affected miRNAs were further validated by qPCR. The roles of the heme degradation products, carbon monoxide (CO), iron (Fe) and bilirubin on miRNA expression were assessed and salient mRNA targets of the impacted miRNAs were ascertained. RESULTS: In HMOX1-transfected astrocytes, rno-miR-140*, rno-miR-17, and rno-miR-16 were significantly up-regulated, and rno-miR-297, rno-miR-206, rno-miR-187, rno-miR-181a, rno-miR-138 and rno-miR-29c were down-regulated, compared to sham-transfected controls. CO and Fe were implicated in the HMOX1 effects, whereas bilirubin was inert or counteracted the HMOX1-related changes. mRNA levels of Ngfr, Vglut1, Mapk3, Tnf-alpha, and Sirt1, known targets of the down-regulated miRNAs and abnormal in various human brain disorders, were significantly increased in the HMOX-1-transfected astrocytes. CONCLUSIONS: In chronic CNS disorders, altered expression of salient miRNAs and their mRNA targets may contribute to the neural damage accruing from the over-expression of glial HO-1.	Animals;Astrocytes/ metabolism;Bilirubin/metabolism;Brain/metabolism;Brain Diseases/metabolism;Carbon Monoxide/metabolism;Heme Oxygenase-1/genetics/ metabolism;Humans;Iron/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Transfection;astrocyte;heme oxygenase-1;miRNA;mitochondria;neurodegeneration;oxidative stress
Regulation of Myelination in the Central Nervous System by Nuclear Lamin B1 and Non-coding RNAs	S. T. Lin, et al.	2014	24495672	Adult-onset autosomal dominant leukodystrophy (ADLD) is a progressive and fatal hereditary demyelination disorder characterized initially by autonomic dysfunction and loss of myelin in the central nervous system (CNS). Majority of ADLD is caused by a genomic duplication of the nuclear lamin B1 gene (LMNB1) encoding lamin B1 protein, resulting in increased gene dosage in brain tissue. In vitro, excessive lamin B1 at the cellular level reduces transcription of myelin genes, leading to premature arrest of oligodendrocyte differentiation. Murine models of ADLD overexpressing LMNB1 exhibited age-dependent motor deficits and myelin defects, which are associated with reduced occupancy of the Yin Yang 1 transcription factor at the promoter region of the proteolipid protein gene. Lamin B1 overexpression mediates oligodendrocyte cell-autonomous neuropathology in ADLD and suggests lamin B1 as an important regulator of myelin formation and maintenance during aging. Identification of microRNA-23 (miR-23) as a negative regulator of lamin B1 can ameliorate the consequences of excessive lamin B1 at the cellular level. miR-23a-overexpressing mice display enhanced oligodendrocyte differentiation and myelin synthesis. miR-23a targets include a protein coding transcript PTEN (phosphatase and tensin homolog on chromosome 10), and a long noncoding RNA (2700046G09Rik), indicating a unique role for miR-23a in the coordination of proteins and noncoding RNAs in generating and maintaining healthy myelin. Here, we provide a concise review of the current literature on clinical presentations of ADLD and how lamin B1 affects myelination and other developmental processes. Moreover, we address the emerging role of non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) in modulating gene networks, specifically investigating miR-23 as a potential target for the treatment of ADLD and other demyelinating disorders.	
Intralysosomal iron induces lysosomal membrane permeabilization and cathepsin D-mediated cell death in trabecular meshwork cells exposed to oxidative stress	Y. Lin, et al.	2010	20574010	PURPOSE: To investigate the role of intralysosomal redox-active iron in oxidative stress-induced damage in trabecular meshwork (TM) cells. METHODS: Chronic oxidative stress was applied using the hyperoxic model; acute oxidative stress was applied with H(2)O(2). Microarray analysis was performed using microarrays. mRNA and protein levels were quantified by real-time PCR and Western blot analysis, respectively. Redox-active iron was monitored using calcein-AM. Apoptosis was quantified using double staining. DNA damage was evaluated by single-cell gel electrophoresis assay. Lysosomal permeabilization was monitored using uptake and acridine orange relocation techniques. Intracellular ROS production was quantified using H(2)DCFDA. Cytosolic translocation of cathepsins was visualized with pepstatin-A-BODIPY-FL. Chemical inhibition of cathepsins was achieved with leupeptin and pepstatin A. Silencing of cathepsin expression was accomplished with miRNA sequences. Lysosomal iron chelation was achieved with desferrioxamine. RESULTS: Chronically stressed TM cells showed elevated levels of redox-active iron and altered expression of genes involved in intracellular iron homeostasis. Although iron increased ROS production and lipofuscin levels and sensitized TM cells to H(2)O(2), intralysosomal iron chelation completely protected the cells against H(2)O(2)-induced cell death and apoptosis. The protective effect of desferrioxamine was mediated by the prevention of lysosomal ROS generation and the rupture of lysosomal membrane, with the subsequent release of cathepsin D into the cytosol. CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that the generation of intralysosomal ROS induces lysosomal membrane permeabilization and the release of cathepsin D into the cytosol, leading to TM cell death. Here, the authors propose a mechanism by which oxidative stress might contribute to the decrease in cellularity reported in the TM tissue with both aging and disease.	Animals;Apoferritins/genetics/metabolism;Apoptosis;Blotting, Western;Cathepsin D/antagonists & inhibitors/ metabolism;Cell Membrane Permeability;Cells, Cultured;Enzyme Inhibitors/pharmacology;Glaucoma/metabolism/ pathology;Humans;Hydrogen Peroxide/toxicity;Iron/ physiology;Lipofuscin/metabolism;Lysosomes/ metabolism;Microarray Analysis;Oxidation-Reduction;Oxidative Stress;Polymerase Chain Reaction;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Receptors, Transferrin/genetics/metabolism;Swine;Trabecular Meshwork/drug effects/metabolism/ pathology
MicroRNA expression profiling outperforms mRNA expression profiling in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues	A. Liu, et al.	2009	19636399	microRNAs (miRNAs) are approximately 22nt RNAs that regulate target gene expression. Altered expression of miRNAs has been demonstrated in many different human cancers. Many studies using microarray technologies to characterize miRNA expression profiles have relied on fresh tissue to determine the miRNA signatures. In this study, we prepared total RNA from paired samples of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) and fresh frozen malignant melanoma, and used that in microarray experiments to compare miRNA expression profiles between FFPE and fresh tissue with corresponding mRNA expression profiles from the same tissue sources. We demonstrate that miRNA expression profile from FFPE tissues closely resembles that from fresh tissues, and the correlation is significantly better than that for mRNA profiles from FFPE and fresh tissues. These results underscore the suitability of FFPE tissues as appropriate resources for molecular expression analyses and support the notion that miRNAs are more vigorous analytes for this purpose than mRNAs.	formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE);melanoma;miRNA;microarray
Distinct microRNA expression profiles in prostate cancer stem/progenitor cells and tumor-suppressive functions of let-7	C. Liu, et al.	2012	22719071	MiRNAs regulate cancer cells, but their potential effects on cancer stem/progenitor cells are still being explored. In this study, we used quantitative real-time-PCR to define miRNA expression patterns in various stem/progenitor cell populations in prostate cancer, including CD44+, CD133+, integrin alpha2beta1+, and side population cells. We identified distinct and common patterns in these different tumorigenic cell subsets. Multiple tumor-suppressive miRNAs were downregulated coordinately in several prostate cancer stem/progenitor cell populations, namely, miR-34a, let-7b, miR-106a, and miR-141, whereas miR-301 and miR-452 were commonly overexpressed. The let-7 overexpression inhibited prostate cancer cell proliferation and clonal expansion in vitro and tumor regeneration in vivo. In addition, let-7 and miR-34a exerted differential inhibitory effects in prostate cancer cells, with miR-34a inducing G1 phase cell-cycle arrest accompanied by cell senescence and let-7 inducing G2-M phase cell-cycle arrest without senescence. Taken together, our findings define distinct miRNA expression patterns that coordinately regulate the tumorigenicity of prostate cancer cells.	Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/physiology;Neoplastic Stem Cells/ pathology;Prostatic Neoplasms/ genetics/pathology
Knockdown of microRNA-195 contributes to protein phosphatase-2A inactivation in rats with chronic brain hypoperfusion	C. D. Liu, et al.	2016	27459928	Reduction of protein phosphatase-2A (PP2A) activity is a common clinical feature of Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. In this study, we observed that chronic brain hypoperfusion induced by bilateral common carotid artery occlusion of rats led to PP2A inactivation based on the increase in tyrosine-307 phosphorylation and leucine-309 demethylation of PP2AC and the depression in PP2ABalpha. Knockdown of miR-195 using overexpression of its antisense molecule oligonucleotide (pre-AMO-miR-195) delivered by a lentivirus (lenti-pre-AMO-miR-195) increased tyrosine-307 phosphorylation and decreased both PP2ABalpha expression and leucine-309 methylation; these effects were prevented by the overexpression of miR-195 using lenti-pre-miR-195 and controlled by an increase in methylesterase (PME-1) and a decrease in leucine carboxyl methyltransferase-1. In vitro studies demonstrated that miR-195 regulated PME-1 expression by binding to the Ppme1 gene 3'-untranslated region (3'UTR) domain. Masking the miR-195 binding sites in the amyloid precursor protein (APP) and beta-site APP cleaving enzyme 1 genes prevented miR-195-induced leucine carboxyl methyltransferase-1 elevation. We concluded that the miR-195 downregulation in chronic brain hypoperfusion involved PP2A inactivity, which was mediated by the post-transcriptional regulation PME-1, APP, and beta-site APP cleaving enzyme 1 expression.	Chronic brain hypoperfusion;Lcmt-1;Pme-1;Pp2a;miR-195
MicroRNA-193b is a regulator of amyloid precursor protein in the blood and cerebrospinal fluid derived exosomal microRNA-193b is a biomarker of Alzheimer's disease	C. G. Liu, et al.	2014	25119742	Amyloid precursor protein (APP) has an important function in the generation of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In our previous study, miR193b was found to be downregulated in the hippocampi of 9monthold APP/PS1 doubletransgenic mice using microRNA (miR) array. In the present study, bioinformatic analyses showed that miR193b was a miR that was predicted to potentially target the 3'untranslated region (UTR) of APP. Subsequently, the function of miR193b on APP was studied. The levels of miR193b, exosomal miR193b, Abeta, tau, ptau, HCY and APOE in samples from APP/PS1 doubletransgenic mice, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and dementia of Alzheimertype (DAT) patients, were measured. The results indicated that overexpression of miR193b could repress the mRNA and protein expression of APP. The miR193b inhibitor oligonucleotide induced upregulation of APP. Binding sites of miR193b in the 3'UTR of APP were identified by luciferase assay. MCI and DAT patients had lower exosomal miR193b, but not total miR193b, in the blood as compared with the controls. DAT patients had lower exosomal miR193b levels in blood as compared with the MCI group. A decreased exosomal miR193b expression level was additionally observed in the cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) of DAT patients. Negative correlations were found between exosomal miR193b and Abeta42 in the CSF of DAT patients. In conclusion, these findings showed that miR193b may function in the development of AD and exosomal miR193b has potential as a novel, non-invasive, bloodbased biomarker of MCI and DAT patients.	3' Untranslated Regions;Aged;Alzheimer Disease/blood/ cerebrospinal fluid;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ cerebrospinal fluid/genetics;Animals;Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Biomarkers/blood/cerebrospinal fluid;Case-Control Studies;Exosomes/metabolism;Female;Gene Expression;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Male;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/cerebrospinal fluid/ genetics;Middle Aged;Peptide Fragments/ cerebrospinal fluid/genetics;RNA Interference
MicroRNA-384 regulates both amyloid precursor protein and beta-secretase expression and is a potential biomarker for Alzheimer's disease	C. G. Liu, et al.	2014	24827165	Amyloid precursor protein (APP) and beta-site APP cleaving enzyme (BACE-1) play important roles in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, using bioinformatics analysis, we demonstrate that miR-384 is a microRNA (miRNA or miR) predicted to potentially target the 3' untranslated regions (3'-UTRs) of both APP and BACE-1. SH-SY5Y cells were transfected with miR-384 mimic oligonucleotide, miR-384 inhibitor oligonucleotide, or a non-specific control siRNA. We found that the overexpression of miR-384 suppressed the mRNA and protein expression of both APP and BACE-1. The miR-384 inhibitor oligonucleotide induced the upregulation of APP and BACE-1. The activity of BACE-1 was altered following the change in its protein expression. The binding sites of miR-384 on the 3'-UTRs of APP and BACE-1 were identified by luciferase assay. Furthermore, cells were treasted with amyloid-beta (Abeta)42. Abeta42 downregulated miR-384 expression, leading to the continuous reduction in miR-384 expression. In addition, using a mouse model of AD, as well as patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and dementia of Alzheimer's type (DAT), we examined the levels of miR-384 in cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) and serum. Patients with MCI and DAT had lower blood miR-384 levels compared with the controls. In addition, patients with DAT had lower blood miR-384 levels in blood compared with the MCI group. We also found decreased miR-384 expression in the several cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) of the patients with DAT. Negative correlations were observed between miR-384 and Abeta42 in the serum and CSF from patients with AD. In conclusion, these findings demonstrate that miR-384 may plays a role in the development of AD and may be a potential non-invasive biomarker for the diagnosis of AD.	3' Untranslated Regions;Aged;Alzheimer Disease/blood/cerebrospinal fluid/ genetics/pathology;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/ genetics/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/genetics/metabolism/pharmacology;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/ genetics/metabolism;Binding Sites;Biomarkers/metabolism;Case-Control Studies;Cell Line;Cognitive Dysfunction/blood/cerebrospinal fluid/ genetics/pathology;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Hippocampus/drug effects/metabolism/pathology;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;Peptide Fragments/genetics/metabolism/pharmacology;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics/metabolism;Severity of Illness Index;Signal Transduction
MicroRNA-135a and -200b, potential Biomarkers for Alzheimers disease, regulate beta secretase and amyloid precursor protein	C. G. Liu, et al.	2014	25152461	Amyloid precursor protein (APP) and beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme (BACE-1) play important roles in the generation of Alzheimers disease (AD), a progressive neurodegenerative disorder. In the present study, microRNA (miR) microarray was used to analyze the miR expression profiles in the hippocampi from APP/PS1 transgenic and wild type mice. The miRs with significant alteration and putative targets on APP or BACE-1 were retrieved (miR-135a, -200b and -429). The deregulations of these miRs were confirmed in mice and further verified in AD patient samples by qPCR. Primary mouse hippocampal neurons, SH-SY5Y and HEK293 cells were used to study the function of miRs on APP and BACE-1. We found that miR-135a, which was downregulated significantly in hippocampi from APP/PS1 transgenic mice compared with the wild type control, directly interacted with the 3'-UTR of BACE-1 and repressed its expression and activity. On the other hand, miR-200b and -429, which were downregulated significantly in hippocampi from APP/PS1 transgenic mice compared with the wild type control, targeted the 3'-UTR of APP and repressed its expression. Furthermore, Abeta42 could downregulate miR-200b expression which may generate a vicious cycle resulted in accumulating Abeta42. The levels of miR-135a and -200b in the serum of DAT group were significantly lower than that of control groups (P<0.05). The serum miR-200b level of MCI group was higher than that of DAT group (P<0.05) and lower than that of control group (P<0.05). We also found decreased miR-135a and -200b levels in the cerebrospinal fluid of DAT group compared with the control group (P<0.05). In conclusion, these findings showed that miR-135a, -200b and -429 may take part in the progress of AD; miR-200b was of great potential as noninvasive and easily detected blood-based biomarkers of MCI and DAT patients.	Aged;Alzheimer Disease/ metabolism;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/genetics/metabolism;Animals;Biomarkers/metabolism;Cell Line, Tumor;Cells, Cultured;Cognitive Dysfunction/metabolism;Female;HEK293 Cells;Hippocampus/metabolism;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Presenilin-1/genetics/metabolism;Alzheimers disease;Amyloid precursor protein;microRNA;beta secretase
The Association of MME microRNA Binding Site Polymorphism with the Risk of Late Onset Alzheimer's Disease in Northern Han Chinese	C. X. Liu, et al.	2017	28294061	BACKGROUND: Although beta-amyloid (Abeta) degradation has been normally implicated in the pathogenesis of late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) through cellular biological studies, the genetic studies linking Abeta degradation and LOAD are still scarce. Neprilysin (NEP), one of the most crucial Abeta-degrading enzymes in AD, is the metalloendopeptidase which particularly participates in the monomeric Abeta species degradation. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) exert post-transcriptional dysregulation and their target sequence on the 3' untranslated regions (3'UTR) may be regulated by single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). OBJECTIVE: To investigate the potential risk of common locus within NEP gene (MME) with LOAD in Northern Han Chinese population. METHOD: We screened a locus (rs6665) in 3' UTR of NEP gene (MME) which sequence was specially regulated by miRNA-187, and further investigated its possible association with LOAD onset in a large case-control study (984 LOAD patients and 1354 healthy controls) in Northern Han Chinese. RESULTS: The distribution of rs6665 genotype (P=0.003) and allele A/C (P=0.001) showed significant difference between LOAD and controls (Odds Ratio (OR) =1.255, 95% Confidence Interval (CI) =1.102-1.429). After adjusting for age, gender and Apolipoprotein (ApoE) epsilon4 status, the minor C allele of rs6665 showed significant association with LOAD in all three genotypic models (Dominant: P=0.003, OR=1.291, 95%CI=1.092-1.526; Recessive: P=0.030, OR =1.425, 95%CI =1.035- 1.961; Additive: P=0.001, OR=1.249,95%CI=1.093-1.427). After stratifying by ApoE epsilon4 status, rs6665 polymorphism was found to elevate the LOAD risk in ApoE epsilon4 carriers (P=0.002, OR=1.846, 95%CI=1.264-2.697). CONCLUSION: Our study firstly confirmed the association of MME miRNA binding site polymorphism with the risk of LOAD. However, the association results warrant further validation.	Mme;Neprilysin;late onset alzheimer's disease;polymorphism;rs6665
Dysregulated expression of miR-101b and miR-26b lead to age-associated increase in LPS-induced COX-2 expression in murine macrophage	D. Liu, et al.	2015	26371058	Aging is the natural process of decline in physiological structure and function of various molecules, cells, tissues, and organs. Growing evidence indicates that increased immune genetic diversity and dysfunction of immune system cause aging-related pathophysiological process with the growth of age. In the present study, we observed that LPS-induced higher activation of cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 promoter is associated with the upregulated binding activity of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) in peritoneal macrophages of aged mice than young ones. Additionally, COX-2 is a direct target of miR-101b and miR-26b in the macrophages. Significant upregulation of miR-101b and miR-26b effectively prevented LPS-induced excessive expression of COX-2 in the young mice. Because these negative regulatory factors were unresponsive to LPS stimulation, the levels of COX-2 were markedly higher in the macrophages of aged mice. Further study showed that NF-kappaB activation contributed to the increase in the expression of miR-101b and miR-26b in the LPS-stimulated macrophages of young mice, but not aged ones. Moreover, histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor trichostatin A (TSA) upregulated expression of miR-101b and miR-26b in the aged mouse macrophages only, but not the young cells. This demonstrated that HDAC suppressed the expression of miR-101b and miR-26b in the LPS-treated macrophages of aged mice and contributed to the aging process. TSA-induced increased expression of miR-101b and miR-26b could further suppress COX-2 expression. These findings provide novel evidence on the regulation of immune senescence and miR-101b and miR-26b, which might be promising targets in treating aged-related inflammatory diseases. Epigenetic regulation of the microRNAs (miRNAs) provides an important evidence for the treatment of innate inflammatory disease with HDAC inhibitors in elderly.	Aging/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Cyclooxygenase 2/biosynthesis/ genetics;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression Regulation;Inflammation/chemically induced/ genetics/metabolism;Macrophages/ metabolism;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;RNA/genetics;Aging;Cox-2;Immunosenescence;Macrophage;miR-101b;miR-26b
Next-generation small RNA sequencing for microRNAs profiling in Apis mellifera: comparison between nurses and foragers	F. Liu, et al.	2012	22458842	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small non-coding RNAs regulating gene expression in animals and plants. To find some differentially expressed miRNAs that may be associated with age-dependent behavioural changes in honey bees (Apis mellifera), we applied next-generation high-throughput sequencing technology to detect small RNAs in nurses and foragers. Our results showed that both nurses and foragers had a complicated small RNA population, and the length of small RNAs varied, 22 nucleotides being the predominant length. Combining deep sequencing and bioinformatic analysis, we discovered that nine known miRNAs were significantly different between nurses and foragers (P < 0.01; absolute value of fold-change >/= 1). Some of their target genes were related to neural function. Moreover, 67 novel miRNAs were identified in nurses and foragers. Ame-miR-31a and ame-miR-13b were further validated using quantitative reverse-transcription PCR assays. The present study provides new information on the miRNA abundance of honey bees, and enhances our understanding of miRNA function in the regulation of honey bee development.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Bees/ genetics;DNA Primers/metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Library;Hierarchy, Social;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Reproducibility of Results;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Sequence Analysis, RNA/ methods
MiR-506 suppresses proliferation and induces senescence by directly targeting the CDK4/6-FOXM1 axis in ovarian cancer	G. Liu, et al.	2014	24604117	Ovarian carcinoma is the most lethal gynaecological malignancy. Better understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of this disease and effective targeted therapies are needed to improve patient outcomes. MicroRNAs play important roles in cancer progression and have the potential for use as either therapeutic agents or targets. Studies in other cancers have suggested that miR-506 has anti-tumour activity, but its function has yet to be elucidated. We found that deregulation of miR-506 in ovarian carcinoma promotes an aggressive phenotype. Ectopic over-expression of miR-506 in ovarian cancer cells was sufficient to inhibit proliferation and to promote senescence. We also demonstrated that CDK4 and CDK6 are direct targets of miR-506, and that miR-506 can inhibit CDK4/6-FOXM1 signalling, which is activated in the majority of serous ovarian carcinomas. This newly recognized miR-506-CDK4/6-FOXM1 axis provides further insight into the pathogenesis of ovarian carcinoma and identifies a potential novel therapeutic agent.	3' Untranslated Regions;Binding Sites;Cell Aging;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Cell Survival;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 4/genetics/ metabolism;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 6/genetics/ metabolism;Female;Forkhead Box Protein M1;Forkhead Transcription Factors/genetics/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Genotype;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Neoplasms, Cystic, Mucinous, and Serous/ enzymology/genetics/pathology;Ovarian Neoplasms/ enzymology/genetics/pathology;Phenotype;Signal Transduction;Time Factors;Transfection;Foxm1;miR-506;ovarian carcinoma;proliferation;senescence
CCL5 promotes vascular endothelial growth factor expression and induces angiogenesis by down-regulating miR-199a in human chondrosarcoma cells	G. T. Liu, et al.	2015	25444917	Chondrosarcoma is a primary malignant bone cancer, with a potent capacity to invade locally and cause distant metastasis. Angiogenesis is a critical step in tumor growth and metastasis. Chemokine CCL5 (previously called RANTES) has been shown to facilitate tumor progression and metastasis. However, the relationship of CCL5 with vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression and angiogenesis in human chondrosarcoma is mostly unknown. In this study, CCL5 increased VEGF expression and also promoted chondrosarcoma medium-mediated angiogenesis in vitro as well as angiogenesis effects in the chick chorioallantoic membrane and Matrigel plug nude mice model in vivo. MicroRNA analysis was performed in CCL5-treated chondrosarcoma cells versus control cells to investigate the mechanism of CCL5-mediated promotion of chondrosarcoma angiogenesis. Among the miRNAs regulated by CCL5, miR-199a was the most downregulated miRNA after CCL5 treatment. In addition, co-transfection with miR-199a mimic reversed the CCL5-mediated VEGF expression and angiogenesis in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, overexpression of CCL5 increased tumor-associated angiogenesis and tumor growth by downregulating miR-199a in the xenograft tumor angiogenesis model. Taken together, these results demonstrated that CCL5 promotes VEGF-dependent angiogenesis in human chondrosarcoma cells by downregulating miR-199a.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Animals;Base Sequence;Blotting, Western;Bone Neoplasms/blood supply/ drug therapy/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cells, Cultured;Chemokine CCL5/genetics/metabolism/ pharmacology;Chick Embryo;Chondrosarcoma/blood supply/ drug therapy/genetics;Dose-Response Relationship, Drug;Down-Regulation/drug effects/genetics;Endothelial Progenitor Cells/drug effects/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/drug effects;Humans;Male;Mice, SCID;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neovascularization, Pathologic/ genetics/metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid;Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A/ genetics/metabolism;Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays;Angiogenesis;Ccl5;Chondrosarcoma;Vegf;miR-199a
MicroRNA-26b is upregulated in a double transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease and promotes the expression of amyloid-beta by targeting insulin-like growth factor 1	H. Liu, et al.	2016	26847596	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia among the aging population. It is pathologically characterized by synaptic impairment, accumulation of neurofibrillary tangles and amyloidbeta (Abeta) deposition. MicroRNA26b (miR26b) has been observed to be upregulated in the human temporal cortex in AD, however, the function of miR26b has not been verified. Reverse transcriptionquantitative polymerase chain reaction was conducted to investigate the expression levels of miR26b in a double transgenic mouse model of AD. Following transfection of miR26b or an miR26b inhibitor, western blot analysis, enzymelinked immunosorbent assay and luciferase assays were performed. The present study demonstrated that the expression levels of miR26b were upregulated in a double transgenic mouse model of AD. It was also demonstrated that upregulation of miR26b in N2a/APP cells downregulated the insulinlike growth factor 1 (IGF1) protein expression level and promoted Abeta production, whereas inhibition of miR26b in N2a/APP cells upregulated the IGF1 protein level and suppressed Abeta production. Furthermore, miR26b target sites in IGF1 were confirmed using a luciferase assay in HEK293 cells. The present study may be useful in the development of effective therapeutic strategies against AD.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Gene Expression;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Insulin-Like Growth Factor I/ genetics/metabolism;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;RNA Interference;Transcriptional Activation;Up-Regulation
Folic acid deficiency enhances abeta accumulation in APP/PS1 mice brain and decreases amyloid-associated miRNAs expression	H. Liu, et al.	2015	26345540	Recent efforts have revealed the microRNA (miRNA) pathways in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Epidemiological studies have revealed an association between folic acid deficiency and AD risk. However, the effects of folic acid deficiency on miRNA expression in AD animals have not been observed. We aimed to find if folic acid deficiency may enhance amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide deposition and regulate amyloid-associated miRNAs and their target genes expression in APP/PS1 mice. APP/PS1 mice and N2a cells were treated with folic acid-deficient diet or medium. Cognitive function of mice was assessed using the Morris water maze. miRNA profile was tested by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) array. Different expressional miRNAs were validated by real-time PCR. The deposition of Abeta plaques was evaluated by immunohistochemistry and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. APP and BACE1 proteins in mice brain and N2a cells were determined by Western blot. Folic acid deficiency aggravated amyloid pathology in AD mice. The AD+FD group showed shorter time spent in the target zone during the probe test. Analysis of miRNAs predicted to target these genes revealed several miRNA candidates that were differentially modulated by folic acid deficiency. In APP/PS1 mice brains and N2a cells with folic acid-deficient treatment, miR-106a-5p, miR-200b-3p and miR-339-5p were down-regulated, and their target genes APP and BACE1 were up-regulated. In conclusion, folic acid deficiency can enhance Abeta accumulation in APP/PS1 mice brain and decrease amyloid-associated miRNAs expression.	Alzheimer Disease/metabolism;Amyloid/ metabolism;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/ metabolism;Animals;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/metabolism;Brain/metabolism;Cell Line, Tumor;Cognition;Cognition Disorders/metabolism;Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay;Folic Acid/blood/ chemistry;Folic Acid Deficiency/ metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Male;Maze Learning;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Presenilin-1/metabolism;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;APP/PS1 mice;Alzheimer's disease;Amyloid beta-peptide;Folic acid;MicroRNA
The microRNAs Let7c and miR21 are recognized by neuronal Toll-like receptor 7 to restrict dendritic growth of neurons	H. Y. Liu, et al.	2015	25917529	Inflammatory responses are known to play critical roles in the regulation of neurodevelopment and neurodegeneration. Although microglial cells are recognized as professional immune cells in brains, recent evidence suggests that neurons also express important receptors and regulators of innate immunity, including Toll-like receptor 7 (TLR7), which is a receptor for single-stranded RNAs (ssRNAs). Here, we report that neuronal TLR7 recognizes endogenous ligands such as the miRNAs Let7c and miR21 and plays a negative role in controlling neuronal growth in a cell-autonomous manner. We show here that hippocampal CA1 neurons in Tlr7(-/Y) mice had more complex dendritic arbors compared with those of wild-type littermates at postnatal (P) day 7, but not at P21. This observation strengthens a role of TLR7 in restricting neuronal growth during development. In cultured neurons, transient knockdown of Tlr7 promoted axonal and dendritic growth, supporting the cell-autonomous effect of TLR7 on neuronal growth. We observed perceptible levels of Let7c and miR21 in the exosomes of the neuronal cultures as well as in developing brains. Treatment with Let7c and miR21 restricted dendritic growth of wild-type neurons but not Tlr7(-/-) neurons. Our study suggests that neuronal TLR7 is activated by endogenous ligands and thus regulates neuronal morphology. Neuronal innate immune responses may influence neurodevelopment and neurodegeneration through the regulation of neuronal morphology.	Animals;Dendrites/ metabolism;Hippocampus/metabolism;Immunity, Innate/immunology;Membrane Glycoproteins/genetics/ metabolism;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Microglia/immunology/metabolism;Neurons/ metabolism;Signal Transduction/immunology;Toll-Like Receptor 7/genetics/ metabolism;Axonal outgrowth;Dendritic morphogenesis;Innate immunity;MicroRNAs;Neuronal TLR7
rs2735383, located at a microRNA binding site in the 3'UTR of NBS1, is not associated with breast cancer risk	J. Liu, et al.	2016	27845421	NBS1, also known as NBN, plays an important role in maintaining genomic stability. Interestingly, rs2735383 G > C, located in a microRNA binding site in the 3'-untranslated region (UTR) of NBS1, was shown to be associated with increased susceptibility to lung and colorectal cancer. However, the relation between rs2735383 and susceptibility to breast cancer is not yet clear. Therefore, we genotyped rs2735383 in 1,170 familial non-BRCA1/2 breast cancer cases and 1,077 controls using PCR-based restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP-PCR) analysis, but found no association between rs2735383CC and breast cancer risk (OR = 1.214, 95% CI = 0.936-1.574, P = 0.144). Because we could not exclude a small effect size due to a limited sample size, we further analyzed imputed rs2735383 genotypes (r2 > 0.999) of 47,640 breast cancer cases and 46,656 controls from the Breast Cancer Association Consortium (BCAC). However, rs2735383CC was not associated with overall breast cancer risk in European (OR = 1.014, 95% CI = 0.969-1.060, P = 0.556) nor in Asian women (OR = 0.998, 95% CI = 0.905-1.100, P = 0.961). Subgroup analyses by age, age at menarche, age at menopause, menopausal status, number of pregnancies, breast feeding, family history and receptor status also did not reveal a significant association. This study therefore does not support the involvement of the genotype at NBS1 rs2735383 in breast cancer susceptibility.	
MicroRNA-34b mediates hippocampal astrocyte apoptosis in a rat model of recurrent seizures	L. Liu, et al.	2016	27514646	BACKGROUND: Recurrent convulsions can cause irreversible astrocyte death, impede neuron regeneration, and further aggravate brain damage. MicroRNAs have been revealed as players in the progression of numerous diseases including cancer and Alzheimer's disease. Particularly, microRNA has been found linked to seizure-induced neuronal death. In this study, a rat model of recurrent convulsions induced by flurothyl treatments was utilised to assess the alterations of microRNA expressions in hippocampus tissues. We also applied an in vitro model in which primary astrocytes were exposed to kainic acid to verify the targets of miR-34b-5p identified in the animal model. RESULTS: We discovered that miR-34b-5p, a member of the miR-34 family, increased significantly in flurothyl-treated rat hippocampus tissue. More surprisingly, this upregulation occurred concurrently with accumulating astrocyte apoptosis, indicating the involvement of miR-34b-5p in seizures caused astrocyte apoptosis. Results from the in vitro experiments further demonstrated that miR-34b-5p directly targeted Bcl-2 mRNA, translationally repressed Bcl-2 protein, and thus modulated cell apoptosis by influencing Bcl-2, Bax, and Caspase-3. CONCLUSION: Our findings prove microRNAs play a role in mediating recurrent convulsions-induced astrocyte death and further indicate that miR-34b-5p could acts as a regulator for astrocyte apoptosis induced by recurrent seizures.	Astrocytes;Bcl-2;Convulsion;Hippocampus;MiR-34
The candidate oncogene (MCRS1) promotes the growth of human lung cancer cells via the miR-155-Rb1 pathway	M. Liu, et al.	2015	26467212	BACKGROUND: Microspherule protein 1 (MCRS1) is a candidate oncogene and participates in various cellular processes, including growth, migration, senescence and transformation. MCRS1 is overexpressed in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and promotes the growth of cancer cells. However, the mechanisms driving these processes are not fully understood. METHODS: Retrovirus-mediated RNA interference was employed to knockdown MCRS1 expression in cell lines. Cell proliferation assays and animal experiments were respectively performed to evaluate the growth of NSCLC cells in vitro and in vivo. Microarray analysis was carried out for mRNA profiling. Luciferase reporter assay and microRNA (miRNA) transfection were used to investigate the interaction between miRNA and gene. RESULTS: Stably knocking down MCRS1 expression inhibited the proliferation of NSCLC cells in vitro and in vivo. By comparing the mRNA expression profiles of NSCLC cells with or without MCRS1 silencing, we found that MCRS1 regulated expressions of various genes related to cell proliferation, including Rb1, TP53, cell cycle-related genes, MYC, E2F2, PCNA, and Ki67. However, MCRS1 did not directly bind to these differentially expressed genes. Here, we confirmed that Rb1, an important tumor suppression gene (TSG), is a direct target of miR-155 which is directly up-regulated by MCRS1. Furthermore, the level of Rb1 expression in NSCLC tissues was inversely correlated with those of miR-155 and MCRS1, and MCRS1 regulated expression of Rb1 via miR-155. Additionally, we found that the DNA copy number of the MCRS1 gene played a role in MCRS1 overexpression in NSCLCs. CONCLUSION: MCRS1 overexpression induced NSCLC proliferation through the miR-155-Rb1 pathway and DNA copy-number amplification is one of the mechanisms underlying MCRS1 overexpression in NSCLC. Moreover, we put forward the hypothesis that there are regulatory relationships between oncogenes and TSGs apart from the functional synergy of both; the oncogene-miRNA-TSG networks are one of mechanisms among the regulatory relationships; the regulatory relationships and the networks might play active roles in the development and progression of cancer.	Animals;Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung/ genetics/pathology;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation/ genetics;DNA Copy Number Variations/genetics;Female;Gene Dosage/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/genetics;Humans;Lung Neoplasms/ genetics/pathology;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Nuclear Proteins/biosynthesis/ genetics;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/genetics;RNA, Small Interfering;RNA-Binding Proteins/biosynthesis/ genetics;Retinoblastoma Protein/ genetics/metabolism
Epigenetics in ocular diseases	M. M. Liu, et al.	2013	24179439	Epigenetics pertains to heritable alterations in gene expression that do not involve modification of the underlying genomic DNA sequence. Historically, the study of epigenetic mechanisms has focused on DNA methylation and histone modifications, but the concept of epigenetics has been more recently extended to include microRNAs as well. Epigenetic patterning is modified by environmental exposures and may be a mechanistic link between environmental risk factors and the development of disease. Epigenetic dysregulation has been associated with a variety of human diseases, including cancer, neurological disorders, and autoimmune diseases. In this review, we consider the role of epigenetics in common ocular diseases, with a particular focus on DNA methylation and microRNAs. DNA methylation is a critical regulator of gene expression in the eye and is necessary for the proper development and postmitotic survival of retinal neurons. Aberrant methylation patterns have been associated with age-related macular degeneration, susceptibility to oxidative stress, cataract, pterygium, and retinoblastoma. Changes in histone modifications have also been observed in experimental models of diabetic retinopathy and glaucoma. The expression levels of specific microRNAs have also been found to be altered in the context of ocular inflammation, retinal degeneration, pathological angiogenesis, diabetic retinopathy, and ocular neoplasms. Although the complete spectrum of epigenetic modifications remains to be more fully explored, it is clear that epigenetic dysregulation is an important contributor to common ocular diseases and may be a relevant therapeutic target.	Age-related macular generation;Cataract;DNA methylation;Diabetic retinopathy;Epigenetics;microRNA.
The microRNA miR-34 modulates ageing and neurodegeneration in Drosophila	N. Liu, et al.	2012	22343898	Human neurodegenerative diseases have the temporal hallmark of afflicting the elderly population. Ageing is one of the most prominent factors to influence disease onset and progression, yet little is known about the molecular pathways that connect these processes. To understand this connection it is necessary to identify the pathways that functionally integrate ageing, chronic maintenance of the brain and modulation of neurodegenerative disease. MicroRNAs (miRNA) are emerging as critical factors in gene regulation during development; however, their role in adult-onset, age-associated processes is only beginning to be revealed. Here we report that the conserved miRNA miR-34 regulates age-associated events and long-term brain integrity in Drosophila, providing a molecular link between ageing and neurodegeneration. Fly mir-34 expression exhibits adult-onset, brain-enriched and age-modulated characteristics. Whereas mir-34 loss triggers a gene profile of accelerated brain ageing, late-onset brain degeneration and a catastrophic decline in survival, mir-34 upregulation extends median lifespan and mitigates neurodegeneration induced by human pathogenic polyglutamine disease protein. Some of the age-associated effects of miR-34 require adult-onset translational repression of Eip74EF, an essential ETS domain transcription factor involved in steroid hormone pathways. Our studies indicate that miRNA-dependent pathways may have an impact on adult-onset, age-associated events by silencing developmental genes that later have a deleterious influence on adult life cycle and disease, and highlight fly miR-34 as a key miRNA with a role in this process.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Brain/metabolism/pathology;Disease Models, Animal;Down-Regulation;Drosophila Proteins/biosynthesis/genetics;Drosophila melanogaster/ genetics/ physiology;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/ genetics;Hot Temperature;Humans;Longevity/genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Mutation;Neurodegenerative Diseases/ genetics/pathology;Protein Biosynthesis;RNA, Messenger/analysis/genetics;Survival Analysis;Time Factors;Transcription Factors/biosynthesis/genetics;Up-Regulation
Dicer ablation in osteoblasts by Runx2 driven cre-loxP recombination affects bone integrity, but not glucocorticoid-induced suppression of bone formation	P. Liu, et al.	2016	27554624	Glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis (GIO) is one of the major side effects of long-term glucocorticoid (GC) therapy mediated mainly via the suppression of bone formation and osteoblast differentiation independently of GC receptor (GR) dimerization. Since microRNAs play a critical role in osteoblast differentiation processes, we investigated the role of Dicer dependent microRNAs in the GC-induced suppression of osteoblast differentiation. MicroRNA sequencing of dexamethasone-treated wild-type and GR dimer-deficient mesenchymal stromal cells revealed GC-controlled miRNA expression in a GR dimer-dependent and GR dimer-independent manner. To determine the functional relevance of mature miRNAs in GC-induced osteoblast suppression, mice with an osteoblast-specific deletion of Dicer (Dicer(Runx2Cre)) were exposed to glucocorticoids. In vitro generated Dicer-deficient osteoblasts were treated with dexamethasone and analyzed for proliferation, differentiation and mineralization capacity. In vivo, abrogation of Dicer-dependent miRNA biogenesis in osteoblasts led to growth retardation and impaired bone formation. However, subjecting these mice to GIO showed that bone formation was similar reduced in Dicer(Runx2Cre) mice and littermate control mice upon GC treatment. In line, differentiation of Dicer deficient osteoblasts was suppressed to the same extent as wild type cells by GC treatment. Therefore, Dicer-dependent small RNA biogenesis in osteoblasts plays only a minor role in the pathogenesis of GC-induced inhibition of bone formation.	
Identification of microRNAs involved in Alzheimer's progression using a rabbit model of the disease	Q. Y. Liu, et al.	2014	24754001	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the presence of extracellular plaques of beta-amyloid peptides and intracellular tangles of hyperphosphorylated tau proteins in the brain. The vast majority of cases are late onset AD (LOAD), which are genetically heterogeneous and occur sporadically. High blood cholesterol is suggested to be a risk factor for this disease. Several neuropathological changes of LOAD can be reproduced by supplementing a rabbit's diet with 2% cholesterol for 12 weeks. Accumulating data in the literature suggest that microRNAs (miRNA) participate in the development of AD pathology. The present study focuses on the survey of changes of miRNA expression in rabbit brains during the progression of AD-like pathology using microarray followed by Taq-Man qRT-PCR analyses. Out of 1769 miRNA probes used in the experiments, 99 miRNAs were found to be present in rabbit brain, 57 were newly identified as miRNAs from rabbit brain. Eleven miRNAs showed significant changes over AD-like pathology progression. Among them, the changes of miR-125b, miR-98, miR-107, miR-30, along with 3 members of the let-7 family were similar to those observed in human AD samples, whereas the expression patterns of miR-15a, miR-26b, miR-9 and miR-576-3p were unique to this rabbit LOAD model. The significant up regulation of miR-26b is consistent with the decrease of leptin levels in the brains of cholesterol fed rabbit model for AD, confirming that miR-26b is indeed regulated by leptin and that both leptin and miR-26b may be involved in cholesterol induced AD-like pathology.	Alzheimer's disease;Let-7;MicroRNA;leptin;miR-26b;rabbit AD model
MicroRNA-107 prevents amyloid-beta induced blood-brain barrier disruption and endothelial cell dysfunction by targeting Endophilin-1	W. Liu, et al.	2016	27038654	The disruption of blood-brain barrier (BBB) and endothelial cell dysfunction, associated with the cerebrovascular deposition of the amyloid-beta (Abeta) protein, have been characterized as the key pathological characteristics in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In various biologic processes of AD, researchers have proven that mircroRNAs (miRNAs) play critical roles. However, the role and function of miRNAs in the disruption of BBB of AD still remain unclear. Here, we found that mircroRNA-107 (miR-107) is endogenously expressed in human brain microvascular endothelial cells (ECs) of BBB model, while it is significantly down-regulated in ECs pre-incubated with Abeta. Abeta significantly impairs the integrity, increases the permeability of BBB, inhibits the viability of endothelial cells (ECs), and meanwhile down-regulates the expression of tight junction proteins ZO-1, Occludin and Claudin-5. Overexpression of miR-107 largely abrogated Abeta-induced disruption of BBB and endothelial cell dysfunction. Furthermore, overexpression of miR-107 also down-regulates endophilin-1, which is involved in the regulation of BBB permeability and the expression of ZO-1, Occludin, and Claudin-5. Both bioinformatics and luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that Endophilin-1 was a direct and functional downstream target of miR-107. In conclusion, our results indicate that overexpression of miR-107 is able to prevent Abeta-induced blood-brain barrier disruption and endothelial cell dysfunction by targeting endophilin-1.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ toxicity;Animals;Base Sequence;Blood-Brain Barrier/drug effects/ metabolism/ pathology;Down-Regulation/drug effects;Endothelial Cells/drug effects/ metabolism/ pathology;HEK293 Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Permeability/drug effects;Protein Binding/drug effects;Rats;Tight Junction Proteins/metabolism;Alzheimer's disease;Blood-brain barrier;Endophilin-1;Endothelial cell;MicroRNA-107
MicroRNA-16 targets amyloid precursor protein to potentially modulate Alzheimer's-associated pathogenesis in SAMP8 mice	W. Liu, et al.	2012	20619502	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder mainly characterized by amyloid-beta (Abeta) deposition and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs). The abnormal enrichment of amyloid protein precursor (APP) leads to a high risk of AD. One of the plausible age-associated AD animal models, senescence-accelerated mouse prone 8 (SAMP8), have age-related learning and memory deficits. We found APP protein significantly increased in the hippocampus of aged SAMP8 mice. The 20 to 25 nucleotide (nt) tiny regulators, known as micro ribonucleic acids (miRNAs), have been found to play crucial roles in neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we examined the post-transcriptional regulation mechanism of APP mediated by micro ribonucleic acids and found that miR-16 was one of the post-transcriptional regulators of APP in SAMP8 mice. Overexpression of miR-16, both in vitro and in vivo, led to reduced APP protein expression. Furthermore, miR-16 and APP displayed complementary expression patterns in SAMP8 mice and BALb/c mice embryos. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that APP is a target of miR-16 and the abnormally low expression of miR-16 could potentially lead to APP protein accumulation in AD mice.	Aging, Premature/ genetics/metabolism;Alzheimer Disease/etiology/ genetics/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/genetics/ metabolism/physiology;Animals;Cell Line, Tumor;Disease Models, Animal;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;Mice, Neurologic Mutants;MicroRNAs/ genetics;NIH 3T3 Cells;Neuroblastoma/genetics
Does the Mutant CAG Expansion in Huntingtin mRNA Interfere with Exonucleolytic Cleavage of its First Exon?	W. Liu, et al.	2016	27003665	BACKGROUND: Silencing mutant huntingtin mRNA by RNA interference (RNAi) is a therapeutic strategy for Huntington's disease. RNAi induces specific endonucleolytic cleavage of the target HTT mRNA, followed by exonucleolytic processing of the cleaved mRNA fragments. OBJECTIVES: We investigated the clearance of huntingtin mRNA cleavage products following RNAi, to find if particular huntingtin mRNA sequences persist. We especially wanted to find out if the expanded CAG increased production of a toxic mRNA species by impeding degradation of human mutant huntingtin exon 1 mRNA. METHODS: Mice expressing the human mutant HTT transgene with 128 CAG repeats (YAC128 mice) were injected in the striatum with self-complementary AAV9 vectors carrying a miRNA targeting exon 48 of huntingtin mRNA (scAAV-U6-miRNA-HTT-GFP). Transgenic huntingtin mRNA levels were measured in striatal lysates after two weeks. For qPCR, we used species specific primer-probe combinations that together spanned 6 positions along the open reading frame and untranslated regions of the human huntingtin mRNA. Knockdown was also measured in the liver following tail vein injection. RESULTS: Two weeks after intrastriatal administration of scAAV9-U6-miRNA-HTT-GFP, we measured transgenic mutant huntingtin in striatum using probes targeting six different sites along the huntingtin mRNA. Real time PCR showed a reduction of 29% to 36% in human HTT. There was no significant difference in knockdown measured at any of the six sites, including exon 1. In liver, we observed a more pronounced HTT mRNA knockdown of 70% to 76% relative to the untreated mice, and there were also no significant differences among sites. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that degradation is equally distributed across the human mutant huntingtin mRNA following RNAi-induced cleavage.	Animals;Corpus Striatum/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Exons/genetics;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Huntingtin Protein/analysis/ genetics/metabolism;Huntington Disease/ genetics;Liver/metabolism;Mice;Mutation/ genetics;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/analysis/ genetics/metabolism;Trinucleotide Repeats/ genetics;CAG repeats;Huntington's disease;RNAi;mRNA degradation
The p53/miR-17/Smurf1 pathway mediates skeletal deformities in an age-related model via inhibiting the function of mesenchymal stem cells	W. Liu, et al.	2015	25855145	Osteoporosis is an age-related progressive bone disease. Trp53 (p53) is not only a famous senescence marker but also a transcription regulator which played a critical role in osteogenesis. However, how p53 contributes to the bone mass loss in age-related osteoporosis is still unclear. Here, we found that bone mass and osteogenic differentiation capacity of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) is significantly reduced with advancing age. Serum levels of TNF-alpha and INF-gamma and senescence-associated beta-galactosidase, p16, p21 and p53 are significantly increased in elder mice, but antipodally, osteogenic marker expression of Runx2, ALP and osterix are reduced. Overexpression p53 by lentivirus inhibits osteogenesis in young MSCs in culture and upon implantation in NOD/SCID mice through inhibiting the transcription of miR-17-92 cluster, which is decreased in old mice. In addition, miR-17 mimics could partially rescue the osteogenesis of old MSCs both in vitro an in vivo. More importantly, Smurf1 as a direct target gene of miR-17, plays an important role in the p53/miR-17 cascade acting on osteogenesis. Our findings reveal that p53 inhibits osteogenesis via affecting the function of MSCs through miRNA signaling pathways and provide a new potential target for treatment in future.	Aging/ physiology;Animals;Bone Marrow Cells/physiology;Cell Differentiation;Female;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ physiology;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Osteogenesis;Osteoporosis/ etiology/metabolism;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ metabolism;Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases/metabolism;aging;mesenchymal stem cells;miR-17;p53
miR-106b inhibits tau phosphorylation at Tyr18 by targeting Fyn in a model of Alzheimer's disease	W. Liu, et al.	2016	27520374	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease characterized by beta-amyloid deposits and neurofibrillary tangles consisting of hyperphosphorylated tau protein. Increasing evidence has revealed that microRNAs (miRNAs) are implicated in the pathogenesis of AD. However, the effect of miRNAs on abnormal tau phosphorylation remains largely unclear so far. In this study, we investigated the role of miR-106b in tau phosphorylation and identified a new molecular mechanism of the hyperphosphorylation of tau. The results of qRT-PCR showed that the expression level of miR-106b was decreased, but Fyn was increased in the temporal cortex of AD patients. Overexpression of miR-106b inhibited Abeta1-42-induced tau phosphorylation at Tyr18 in SH-SY5Y cells stably expressing tau (SH-SY5Y/tau), whereas no changes were observed in tau phosphorylation at Ser396/404. Dual-luciferase reporter gene assay validated that Fyn was a direct target gene of miR-106b. In addition, western blot analysis revealed that Fyn protein expression was suppressed when SH-SY5Y cells were transfected with miR-106b mimics. Endogenous Fyn expression was knockdown by transfection with a small interfering RNA specific for Fyn (si-Fyn). The phosphorylation level of tau at Tyr 18 was decreased in the si-Fyn group compared with the negative control group, but the inhibitory effect of si-Fyn on tau phosphorylation was attenuated when miR-106b expression was inhibited. Taken together, these data suggest that miR-106b inhibits Abeta1-42-induced tau phosphorylation at Tyr18 by targeting Fyn. Our findings extend the knowledge about the regulation of tau phosphorylation and the regulatory mechanism of Fyn gene expression.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Amyloid beta-Peptides/genetics/metabolism/pharmacology;Base Sequence;Case-Control Studies;Cell Line, Tumor;Frontal Lobe/metabolism/pathology;Genes, Reporter;Humans;Luciferases/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics/metabolism;Models, Biological;Neurons/drug effects/metabolism/pathology;Oligoribonucleotides, Antisense/genetics/metabolism;Peptide Fragments/genetics/metabolism/pharmacology;Phosphorylation/drug effects;Protein Processing, Post-Translational;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-fyn/antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics/metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Temporal Lobe/metabolism/pathology;Tyrosine/ metabolism;tau Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Alzheimer's disease;Fyn;Phosphorylation;Tau;miR-106b
miR-184 and miR-150 promote renal glomerular mesangial cell aging by targeting Rab1a and Rab31	X. Liu, et al.	2015	26165933	The molecular mechanism of kidney aging is not well understood, but the abnormal expression of miRNAs with aging is considered to be an important contributor. miR-184 and miR-150 were screened using a miRNA microarray and qRT-PCR and found to be significantly upregulated in 24-month-old rats. Rat renal primary glomerular mesangial cells (GMCs) were isolated from 3-month and 24-month-old rats for the in vitro analysis of the roles of miR-184 and miR-150 in kidney aging. Bioinformatics analyses suggested that Rab1a and Rab31, which are associated with cell autophagy, were targeted by both miR-184 and miR-150. miR-184 and miR-150 were increased significantly in aging GMCs versus young cells, while Rab1a and Rab31 were significantly lower in aging cells. Furthermore, dual luciferase reporter assays revealed that miR-184 and miR-150 bound to the 3'-UTR of Rab1a and Rab31 mRNAs. Transfection of miR-184 and miR-150 mimics into young GMCs suppressed the expression of Rab1a and Rab31. Transfected cells showed lower autophagy activities and higher levels of cellular oxidative products, leading to the aging of young GMCs. However, miR-184 and miR-150 inhibitors promoted autophagy and reduced oxidative damage by upregulating Rab1a and Rab31 in old GMCs. In conclusion, miR-184 and miR-150 inhibited autophagy, promoting GMC aging.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Animals;Autophagy/ genetics;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Survival/genetics;Male;Mesangial Cells/ physiology;MicroRNAs/genetics/ physiology;Oxidative Stress/genetics;Rats;Rats, Inbred F344;rab GTP-Binding Proteins/ biosynthesis/genetics;rab1 GTP-Binding Proteins/ biosynthesis/genetics;Autophagy;Glomerular mesangial cell;Oxidative stress;Renal aging;miR-150;miR-184
LSD: a leaf senescence database	X. Liu, et al.	2011	21097471	By broad literature survey, we have developed a leaf senescence database (LSD, http://www.eplantsenescence.org/) that contains a total of 1145 senescence associated genes (SAGs) from 21 species. These SAGs were retrieved based on genetic, genomic, proteomic, physiological or other experimental evidence, and were classified into different categories according to their functions in leaf senescence or morphological phenotypes when mutated. We made extensive annotations for these SAGs by both manual and computational approaches, and users can either browse or search the database to obtain information including literatures, mutants, phenotypes, expression profiles, miRNA interactions, orthologs in other plants and cross links to other databases. We have also integrated a bioinformatics analysis platform WebLab into LSD, which allows users to perform extensive sequence analysis of their interested SAGs. The SAG sequences in LSD can also be downloaded readily for bulk analysis. We believe that the LSD contains the largest number of SAGs to date and represents the most comprehensive and informative plant senescence-related database, which would facilitate the systems biology research and comparative studies on plant aging.	Cell Aging/ genetics;Databases, Genetic;Genes, Plant;Molecular Sequence Annotation;Plant Leaves/ growth & development;Sequence Analysis;Software
Ectopic expression of miR-494 inhibited the proliferation, invasion and chemoresistance of pancreatic cancer by regulating SIRT1 and c-Myc	Y. Liu, et al.	2015	25965392	Recent researches demonstrate that microRNAs (miRNAs) are deregulated in numerous cancers and involved in tumorigenesis, whereas their influences on pancreatic cancer (PC) still need further elucidation. The present research revealed that miR-494 was significantly decreased in PC cell lines and tissues. Functional study showed that overexpressed miR-494 could remarkably inhibit proliferation of PC cells both in vitro and in vivo, which was due to induction of apoptosis, G1-phase arrest and senescence. Moreover, upregulated miR-494 significantly prohibited invasion of PC cells. Meanwhile, both c-Myc and SIRT1 was identified as targets of miR-494 through dual luciferase assay and further confirmed by the reverse correlation between miR-494 and c-Myc/SIRT1 in PC samples. Furthermore, co-transfection with c-Myc-RNAi and SIRT1-RNAi synergistically reduced c-Myc and SIRT1 expression, and inhibited proliferation of PC, which simulated the effects of miR-494 overexpression. On the contrary, co-overexpression of c-Myc and SIRT1 effectively rescued inhibition of overexpressed miR-494 on PC cells. The clinical characteristics further revealed that low miR-494 correlated with larger tumor size, late tumor node metastasis stage, lymphatic invasion, distant metastasis and poor prognosis. In conclusion, the present study indicated that miR-494 might serve as predictor and inhibitor in PC by directy downregulating the loop of c-Myc and SIRT1.	Aged;Animals;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Drug Resistance, Neoplasm;Ectopic Gene Expression;Female;Heterografts;Humans;Male;Mice, Inbred BALB C;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Neoplasm Invasiveness;Pancreatic Neoplasms/ diagnosis/metabolism;Prognosis;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-myc/metabolism;Sirtuin 1/metabolism
Involvement of microRNA-135a-5p in the Protective Effects of Hydrogen Sulfide Against Parkinson's Disease	Y. Liu, et al.	2016	27842305	BACKGROUND/AIMS: Development of effective therapeutic drugs for Parkinson's disease is in great need. During the progression of Parkinson's disease, Rho-associated protein kinase 2 (ROCK2) is activated to promote neurodegeneration. Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) has a neuroprotective effect during the neural injury of Parkinson's disease. However, the mechanisms that underlie the effects of ROCK2 and H2S remain ill-defined. In the current study, we addressed these questions. METHODS: We used a 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-induced mouse subacute model of Parkinson's disease to study the effects of H2S on astrocytic activation in the mouse striatum, on the levels of tyrosine-hydroxylase (TH)-positive neuron loss, on the apomorphine-induced rotational behavior of the mice, and on the changes in ROCK2 and miR-135a-5p expression. Plasmid transfection was applied to modify miR-135a-5p levels in a neuronal cell line HCN-1A. Bioinformatics analysis was performed to predict the relationship between ROCK2 and miR-135a-5p in neuronal cells, and then was confirmed by luciferase reporter assay. RESULTS: H2S alleviated MPTP-induced astrocytic activation in the mouse striatum, alleviated the increases in TH-positive neuron loss, and improved the apomorphine-induced rotational behavior of the mice. H2S significantly attenuated the increases in ROCK2 and the decreases in miR-135a-5p by MPTP. MiR-135a-5p targeted the 3'-UTR of ROCK2 mRNA to inhibit its translation in neuronal cells. CONCLUSION: MiR-135a-5p-regulated ROCK2 may play a role in the protective effects of hydrogen sulfide against Parkinson's disease.	1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine;3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Animals;Apomorphine/pharmacology;Astrocytes/drug effects/metabolism/pathology;Base Sequence;Behavior, Animal/drug effects;Cell Line;Dopamine/metabolism;Humans;Hydrogen Sulfide/pharmacology/ therapeutic use;Male;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Models, Biological;Neostriatum/drug effects/metabolism/pathology;Parkinson Disease/ drug therapy/ genetics/pathology;Protective Agents/pharmacology/ therapeutic use;Protein Biosynthesis/drug effects;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Rotation;rho-Associated Kinases/genetics/metabolism
Role of miR-182 in response to oxidative stress in the cell fate of human fallopian tube epithelial cells	Y. Liu, et al.	2015	26472020	High grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSC) is a DNA instable tumor and its precursor is commonly found originating from the fimbriated end of the fallopian tube secretory epithelial (FTSE) cells. The local stresses via ovulation and related inflammation are risks for HGSC. In this study, we examined the cellular and molecular responses of FTSE cells to stress. We found that excess intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) in normal FTSE cells upregulated a subset of microRNA expression (defined as ROSmiRs). Most ROSmiRs' expression and function were influenced and regulated by p53, and together they drove the cells into stress-induced premature senescence (SIPS). However, ROS-induced miR-182 is regulated by beta-catenin, not by p53. In normal FTSE cells, miR-182 overexpression triggers cellular senescence by p53-mediated upregulation of p21. Conversely, in cells with p53 mutations, miR-182 overexpression no longer enhances p21 but functions as an "Onco-miR". p53 dysfunction is a prerequisite for miR-182-mediated tumorigenesis. In addition, we found that human follicular fluid could significantly induce intracellular ROS in normal FTSE cells. These findings suggest that ROS and p53 mutations may trigger a series of events, beginning with overexpressing miR-182 by ROS and beta-catenin, impairing the DNA damage response, promoting DNA instability, bypassing senescence and eventually leading to DNA instable tumors in FTSE cells.	Animals;Carcinogenesis;Cell Aging/physiology;Cell Differentiation/physiology;Cell Proliferation/physiology;Epithelial Cells/cytology/metabolism;Fallopian Tubes/ cytology/ metabolism;Female;Heterografts;Humans;Mice;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Oxidative Stress/ genetics;Reactive Oxygen Species/ metabolism;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/metabolism;ROS-induced miRNA (ROSmiR);fallopian tube secretory cells;p53;senescence bypass;tumorigenesis
Downregulated expression of miR-142-3p in macrophages contributes to increased IL-6 levels in aged mice	Y. Liu, et al.	2016	27788393	Macrophages are innate immune cells that are important contributors to age-related functional impairment of the immune system. During the cell aging process, microRNAs are differentially expressed and participate in the regulation of aging-related immune responses. However, the role of aging-associated changes in miRNA expression in macrophages remains unclear. Here, we found that miR-142-3p expression is downregulated 50% in peritoneal macrophages from aged mice compared with young mice and is not upregulated by cell treatment with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), CpG, or polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid. Serum levels of miR-142-3p are also lower in aged mice than in young mice by q-PCR. Luciferase reporter analysis showed that IL-6 is a target of miR-142-3p in macrophages. In addition, the histone deacetylase inhibitor trichostatin A increased miR-142-3p expression by more than 3-fold in LPS-treated macrophages from aged mice compared with young mice, which in turn suppressed LPS-stimulated IL-6 production, suggesting that inhibition of miR-142-3p by histone deacetylation may be involved in the lack of response to LPS stimulation in macrophages of aged mice. These findings suggest that downregulation of miR-142-3p in macrophages of aged mice might contribute to IL-6-associated aging disorders and that epigenetic modification might be involved in age-related inflammatory diseases.	Aging;Il-6;Macrophage;miR-142-3p
Therapeutic Effects of Transplantation of As-MiR-937-Expressing Mesenchymal Stem Cells in Murine Model of Alzheimer's Disease	Z. Liu, et al.	2015	26316079	BACKGROUND/AIMS: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most common dementias among aged people, and is clinically characterized by progressive memory loss, behavioral and learning dysfunction and cognitive deficits. So far, this is no cure for AD. A therapeutic effect of transplantation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) into murine model of AD has been reported, but remains to be further improved. Brn-4 is a transcription factor that plays a critical role in neuronal development, whereas the effects of Brn-4 overexpression in transplanted MSCs on AD are unknown. METHODS: MSCs were isolated from mouse bone marrow and induced to overexpress antisense of miRNA-937 (as-miR-937) through adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated transduction, and purified by flow cytometry based on expression of a GFP co-transgene in the cells. The Brn-4 levels in mouse MSCs were examined in miR-937-modified MSCs by RT-qPCR and by Western blot. These miR-937-modified MSCs were then transplanted into an APP/PS1 transgenic AD model in mice. The effects of saline control, MSCs and asmiR-937 MSCs on AD mice were examined by deposition of amyloid-beta peptide aggregates (Abeta), social recognition test (SR), Plus-Maze Discriminative Avoidance Task (PM-DAT) and the levels of Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the mouse brain. RESULTS: MSCs expressed high levels of Brn-4 transcripts but low levels of Brn-4 protein. Poor protein vs mRNA levels of Brn-4 in MSCs appeared to result from the presence of high levels of miR-937 in MSCs. miR-937 inhibited translation of Brn-4 mRNA through binding to the 3'-UTR of the Brn-4 mRNA in MSCs. Expression of as-miR-937 significantly increased Brn-4 protein levels in MSCs. Transplantation of as-miR-937-expressing MSCs significantly reduced the deposition of Abeta, increased the levels of BDNF, and significantly improved the appearance in SR and PM-DAT in AD mice. CONCLUSION: Overexpression of as-miR-937 in MSCs may substantially improve the therapeutic effects of MSCs on AD, possibly through augmenting Brn-4 levels in MSCs.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/ metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/genetics/metabolism;Animals;Brain/metabolism;Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor/genetics/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Humans;Maze Learning/physiology;Mesenchymal Stem Cell Transplantation/methods;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism
Inactivation of miR-34a by aberrant CpG methylation in multiple types of cancer	D. Lodygin, et al.	2008	18719384	Recently, we and others identified the microRNA miR-34a as a target of the tumor suppressor gene product p53. Ectopic miR-34a induces a G(1) cell cycle arrest, senescence and apoptosis. Here we report that miR-34a expression is silenced in several types of cancer due to aberrant CpG methylation of its promoter. 19 out of 24 (79.1%) primary prostate carcinomas displayed CpG methylation of the miR-34a promoter and concomitant loss of miR-34a expression. CpG methylation of the miR-34a promoter was also detected in breast (6/24; 25%), lung (7/24; 29.1%), colon (3/23; 13%), kidney (3/14; 21.4%), bladder (2/6; 33.3%) and pancreatic (3/19; 15.7%) carcinoma cell lines, as well as in melanoma cell lines (19/44; 43.2%) and primary melanoma (20/32 samples; 62.5%). Silencing of miR-34a was dominant over its transactivation by p53 after DNA damage. Re-expression of miR-34a in prostate and pancreas carcinoma cell lines induced senescence and cell cycle arrest at least in part by targeting CDK6. These results show that miR-34a represents a tumor suppressor gene which is inactivated by CpG methylation and subsequent transcriptional silencing in a broad range of tumors.	Animals;Cell Line, Tumor;CpG Islands;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 6/metabolism;DNA Methylation;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Gene Silencing;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neoplasms/ genetics;Promoter Regions, Genetic;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/metabolism
Keep PNUTS in your heart	F. S. Loffredo, et al.	2013	23833289	Aging is a major factor in many cardiovascular diseases. The molecular factors that regulate age-related changes in cardiac physiology and contribute to the increased cardiovascular risk in the elderly are not fully understood. A study recently published in Nature suggests a specific role for microRNAs (miRNAs) in regulating cardiac aging and function, challenging the concept that aging is an inevitable process in the heart.	Aging/ physiology;Animals;Gene Expression Regulation;Heart/ physiology;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Myocardium/ metabolism
Analysis of 13 cell types reveals evidence for the expression of numerous novel primate- and tissue-specific microRNAs	E. Londin, et al.	2015	25713380	Two decades after the discovery of the first animal microRNA (miRNA), the number of miRNAs in animal genomes remains a vexing question. Here, we report findings from analyzing 1,323 short RNA sequencing samples (RNA-seq) from 13 different human tissue types. Using stringent thresholding criteria, we identified 3,707 statistically significant novel mature miRNAs at a false discovery rate of </= 0.05 arising from 3,494 novel precursors; 91.5% of these novel miRNAs were identified independently in 10 or more of the processed samples. Analysis of these novel miRNAs revealed tissue-specific dependencies and a commensurate low Jaccard similarity index in intertissue comparisons. Of these novel miRNAs, 1,657 (45%) were identified in 43 datasets that were generated by cross-linking followed by Argonaute immunoprecipitation and sequencing (Ago CLIP-seq) and represented 3 of the 13 tissues, indicating that these miRNAs are active in the RNA interference pathway. Moreover, experimental investigation through stem-loop PCR of a random collection of newly discovered miRNAs in 12 cell lines representing 5 tissues confirmed their presence and tissue dependence. Among the newly identified miRNAs are many novel miRNA clusters, new members of known miRNA clusters, previously unreported products from uncharacterized arms of miRNA precursors, and previously unrecognized paralogues of functionally important miRNA families (e.g., miR-15/107). Examination of the sequence conservation across vertebrate and invertebrate organisms showed 56.7% of the newly discovered miRNAs to be human-specific whereas the majority (94.4%) are primate lineage-specific. Our findings suggest that the repertoire of human miRNAs is far more extensive than currently represented by public repositories and that there is a significant number of lineage- and/or tissue-specific miRNAs that are uncharacterized.	Animals;Base Sequence;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Genome;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Primates/ genetics;Ribonuclease III/genetics;Sequence Alignment;RNA sequencing;isomIRs;microRNAs;noncoding RNA;transcriptome
MicroRNA-101 downregulates Alzheimer's amyloid-beta precursor protein levels in human cell cultures and is differentially expressed	J. M. Long and D. K. Lahiri	2011	21172309	The full repertoire of regulatory interactions utilized by human cells to control expression of amyloid-beta precursor protein (APP) is still undefined. We investigated here the contribution of microRNA (miRNA) to this regulatory network. Several bioinformatic algorithms predicted miR-101 target sites within the APP 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR). Using reporter assays, we confirmed that, in human cell cultures, miR-101 significantly reduced the expression of a reporter under control of APP 3'-UTR. Mutation of predicted site 1, but not site 2, eliminated this reporter response. Delivery of miR-101 directly to human HeLa cells significantly reduced APP levels and this effect was eliminated by co-transfection with a miR-101 antisense inhibitor. Delivery of a specific target protector designed to blockade the interaction between miR-101 and its functional target site within APP 3'-UTR enhanced APP levels in HeLa. Therefore, endogenous miR-101 regulates expression of APP in human cells via a specific site located within its 3'-UTR. Finally, we demonstrate that, across a series of human cell lines, highest expression of miR-101 levels was observed in model NT2 neurons.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Alzheimer Disease/ metabolism;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;Animals;Binding Sites;HEK293 Cells;HeLa Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;PC12 Cells;Rats;Transcription, Genetic
MicroRNA-153 physiologically inhibits expression of amyloid-beta precursor protein in cultured human fetal brain cells and is dysregulated in a subset of Alzheimer disease patients	J. M. Long, et al.	2012	22733824	Regulation of amyloid-beta (Abeta) precursor protein (APP) expression is complex. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are expected to participate in the molecular network that controls this process. The composition of this network is, however, still undefined. Elucidating the complement of miRNAs that regulate APP expression should reveal novel drug targets capable of modulating Abeta production in AD. Here, we investigated the contribution of miR-153 to this regulatory network. A miR-153 target site within the APP 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) was predicted by several bioinformatic algorithms. We found that miR-153 significantly reduced reporter expression when co-transfected with an APP 3'-UTR reporter construct. Mutation of the predicted miR-153 target site eliminated this reporter response. miR-153 delivery in both HeLa cells and primary human fetal brain cultures significantly reduced APP expression. Delivery of a miR-153 antisense inhibitor to human fetal brain cultures significantly elevated APP expression. miR-153 delivery also reduced expression of the APP paralog APLP2. High functional redundancy between APP and APLP2 suggests that miR-153 may target biological pathways in which they both function. Interestingly, in a subset of human AD brain specimens with moderate AD pathology, miR-153 levels were reduced. This same subset also exhibited elevated APP levels relative to control specimens. Therefore, endogenous miR-153 inhibits expression of APP in human neurons by specifically interacting with the APP 3'-UTR. This regulatory interaction may have relevance to AD etiology, where low miR-153 levels may drive increased APP expression in a subset of AD patients.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Alzheimer Disease/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/ biosynthesis/genetics;Brain/ metabolism/pathology;Female;Fetus/ metabolism/pathology;Gene Expression Regulation;HeLa Cells;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ biosynthesis/genetics
MicroRNA-339-5p down-regulates protein expression of beta-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) in human primary brain cultures and is reduced in brain tissue specimens of Alzheimer disease subjects	J. M. Long, et al.	2014	24352696	Alzheimer disease (AD) results, in part, from the excess accumulation of the amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide as neuritic plaques in the brain. The short Abeta peptide is derived from the large transmembrane Abeta precursor protein (APP). The rate-limiting step in the production of Abeta from APP is mediated by the beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1). Dysregulation of BACE1 levels leading to excess Abeta deposition is implicated in sporadic AD. Thus, elucidating the full complement of regulatory pathways that control BACE1 expression is key to identifying novel drug targets central to the Abeta-generating process. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are expected to participate in this molecular network. Here, we identified a known miRNA, miR-339-5p, as a key contributor to this regulatory network. Two distinct miR-339-5p target sites were predicted in the BACE1 3'-UTR by in silico analyses. Co-transfection of miR-339-5p with a BACE1 3'-UTR reporter construct resulted in significant reduction in reporter expression. Mutation of both target sites eliminated this effect. Delivery of the miR-339-5p mimic also significantly inhibited expression of BACE1 protein in human glioblastoma cells and human primary brain cultures. Delivery of target protectors designed against the miR-339-5p BACE1 3'-UTR target sites in primary human brain cultures significantly elevated BACE1 expression. Finally, miR-339-5p levels were found to be significantly reduced in brain specimens isolated from AD patients as compared with age-matched controls. Therefore, miR-339-5p regulates BACE1 expression in human brain cells and is most likely dysregulated in at least a subset of AD patients making this miRNA a novel drug target.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ enzymology/ genetics/pathology;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/ genetics;Amyloid beta-Peptides/metabolism;Argonaute Proteins/metabolism;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/ genetics;Base Sequence;Brain/ pathology;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Shape;Cells, Cultured;Computational Biology;Conserved Sequence/genetics;Demography;Down-Regulation/ genetics;Female;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Protein Binding/genetics;Reproducibility of Results;Time Factors;Aging;Alzheimer Disease;Dementia;Gene Regulation;Human Brain Tissue;Human Neuron;MicroRNA;Noncoding RNA;Secretases;beta-Peptide
Relevance of microRNAs in normal and malignant development, including human testicular germ cell tumours	L. H. Looijenga, et al.	2007	17573854	The dogma of genome functionality has recently been challenged by identification of non-protein-encoding RNAs, including mi(cro)RNAs. These relatively small sequences interact with mRNA and in the mammalian system, are involved in fine-tuning the process of translation. miRNAs have been found to be of crucial importance for normal development, including stem cell formation. Recent interesting fundamental observations will be discussed in this paper, as well as their impact on the genesis of human germ cell tumours (GCTs), in particular those of the adult testis, seminomas and non-seminomas (type II), and spermatocytic seminomas (type III). miRNA cluster 371-373 is specifically involved in inhibition of cellular senescence induced by oncogenic stress in the type II GCTs. This explains the unusual presence of wild type P53, characteristic of this type of solid cancer. Specific sets of differentiating miRNA were found to characterize the various differentiation lineages within the GCTs, which simulate normal embryonic development.	DNA, Neoplasm/genetics;Genome, Human;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Mutation;Neoplasms/ genetics;Neoplasms, Germ Cell and Embryonal/ genetics;RNA, Neoplasm/genetics;Testicular Neoplasms/ genetics
Opposing activities of oncogenic MIR17HG and tumor suppressive MIR100HG clusters and their gene targets regulate replicative senescence in human adult stem cells	M. F. Lopez, et al.	2017	28649425	Growing evidence suggests that many diseases of aging, including diseases associated with robust changes and adipose deports, may be caused by resident adult stem cell exhaustion due to the process called cellular senescence. Understanding how microRNA pathways can regulate cellular senescence is crucial for the development of novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies to combat these pathologies. Herein, using integrated transcriptomic and semi-quantitative proteomic analysis, we provide a system level view of the regulation of human adipose-derived stem cell senescence by a subset of mature microRNAs (termed senescence-associated-microRNAs) produced by biogenesis of oncogenic MIR17HG and tumor-suppressive MIR100HG clusters. We demonstrate functional significance of these mature senescence-associated-microRNAs in the process of replicative senescence of human adipose-derived stem cells ex-vivo and define a set of senescence-associated-microRNA gene targets that are able to elicit, modulate and, most importantly, balance intimate connections between oncogenic and senescent events.	
RNA Activation of the Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Gene (VEGF) Promoter by Double-Stranded RNA and Hypoxia: Role of Noncoding VEGF Promoter Transcripts	P. Lopez, et al.	2016	26976645	RNA activation (RNAa) is a gene regulation process in which promoter-targeted short double-stranded RNAs (dsRNAs) or microRNAs (miRs) induce target gene expression at the transcriptional level. Here, we investigate the presence of cryptic promoter transcripts within the VEGF promoter. Single-strand sense and antisense noncoding vascular endothelial growth factor (NcVEGF) promoter transcripts are identified, and their respective expression is studied in cells transfected with a VEGF promoter targeted dsRNA, namely, dsVEGF706, in hypoxic cells and in human malignant lung tissues. Interestingly, in dsVEGF706-transfected, as well as in hypoxic cells, NcVEGF expression levels increase coordinately with coding VEGF expression. Ago2 interaction with both sense and antisense NcVEGFs is increased in hypoxic cells, whereas in dsVEGF706-transfected cells, Ago2 and the antisense strand of the dsRNA interact specifically with the sense NcVEGF transcript. Furthermore, both dsVEGF706 and ectopic NcVEGF transcripts are able to activate the VEGF promoter endogenously present or in a reporter construct. Finally, using small interfering RNA targeting Ago2, we show that RNAa plays a role in the maintenance of increased VEGF and NcVEGF expression after hypoxia. Given the central role of VEGF in major human diseases, including cancer, this novel molecular mechanism is poised to reveal promising possibilities for therapeutic interventions.	Argonaute Proteins/ metabolism;Cell Hypoxia;Cell Line, Tumor;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;HeLa Cells;Humans;Lung Neoplasms/ genetics;Promoter Regions, Genetic;RNA, Double-Stranded/ genetics;RNA, Untranslated/ genetics;Transcriptional Activation;Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A/ genetics
Regenerative Medicine for the Aging Brain	M. Lopez-Leon, et al.	2014	25699290	In the central nervous system, cholinergic and dopaminergic (DA) neurons are among the cells most susceptible to the deleterious effects of age. Thus, the basal forebrain cholinergic system is known to undergo moderate neurodegenerative changes during normal aging as well as severe atrophy in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Parkinson's disease (PD), a degeneration of nigro-striatal DA neurons is the most conspicuous reflection of the vulnerability of DA neurons to age. In this context, cell reprogramming offers novel therapeutic possibilities for the treatment of these devastating diseases. In effect, the generation of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from somatic cells demonstrated that adult mammalian cells can be reprogrammed to a pluripotent state by the overexpression of a few embryonic transcription factors (TF). This discovery fundamentally widened the research horizon in the fields of disease modeling and regenerative medicine. Although it is possible to re-differentiate iPSCs to specific somatic cell types, the tumorigenic potential of contaminating iPSCs that failed to differentiate, increases the risk for clinical application of somatic cells generated by this procedure. Therefore, reprogramming approaches that bypass the pluripotent stem cell state are being explored. A method called lineage reprogramming has been recently documented. It consists of the direct conversion of one adult cell type into another by transgenic expression of multiple lineage-specific TF or microRNAs. Another approach, termed direct reprogramming, features several advantages such as the use of universal TF system and the ability to generate a rejuvenated multipotent progenitor cell population, able to differentiate into specific cell types in response to a specific differentiation factors. These novel approaches offer a new promise for the treatment of pathologies associated with the loss of specific cell types as for instance, nigral DA neurons (in PD) or basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in the early stages of AD. The above topics are reviewed here.	Alzheimer;Parkinson;brain aging;cell reprogramming;direct reprogramming;iPSCs;neurodegeneration;regenerative medicine;transdifferentiation
A common microRNA signature in mouse models of retinal degeneration	C. J. Loscher, et al.	2008	18834879	Perturbed microRNA (miR) expression is a feature of, and may play a fundamental role in, certain disease states such as different forms of cancer. Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) a group of inherited retinal degenerations is characterised by a progressive loss of photoreceptor cells and consequent visual handicap. We have previously reported an altered pan-retinal expression of miR-96, -183, -1 and -133 in a P347S-Rhodopsin transgenic mouse model of RP. As many different mutations in Rhodopsin and other genes such as RDS/Peripherin can lead to RP, it was of interest to explore whether the characterized retinal miR expression signature was observed in three other mouse models of RP linked to rhodopsin and rds/peripherin. Therefore, pan-retinal expression of miR-96, -182, -183, -1, -133 and -142 was analysed using quantitative real-time RT-PCR. A common signature of altered miR expression was found; expression of miR-96, -182 and -183 decreased by 14.1-53.2%, while expression of miR-1, -133 and -142 was up-regulated by 186.1-538.5%. Significantly, the detected pan-retinal miR signature was mirrored by similar miR expression profiles in FACS-isolated rod photoreceptors from these mice. In an attempt to understand the function of these miRs, corresponding target genes were predicted using computational means. Many 'enriched' targets (with binding sites for at least two of the above miRs) were found to be regulatory molecules and members of intracellular signalling circuits. However, further studies are required to highlight which of the large number of in silico predicted targets are actually controlled by these miRs.	Animals;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression;Intermediate Filament Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Membrane Glycoproteins/genetics/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Peripherins;Retinal Rod Photoreceptor Cells/metabolism;Retinitis Pigmentosa/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction/methods;Rhodopsin/genetics/metabolism
Dynamic O-GlcNAc cycling at promoters of Caenorhabditis elegans genes regulating longevity, stress, and immunity	D. C. Love, et al.	2010	20368426	Nutrient-driven O-GlcNAcylation of key components of the transcription machinery may epigenetically modulate gene expression in metazoans. The global effects of GlcNAcylation on transcription can be addressed directly in C. elegans because knockouts of the O-GlcNAc cycling enzymes are viable and fertile. Using anti-O-GlcNAc ChIP-on-chip whole-genome tiling arrays on wild-type and mutant strains, we detected over 800 promoters where O-GlcNAc cycling occurs, including microRNA loci and multigene operons. Intriguingly, O-GlcNAc-marked promoters are biased toward genes associated with PIP3 signaling, hexosamine biosynthesis, and lipid/carbohydrate metabolism. These marked genes are linked to insulin-like signaling, metabolism, aging, stress, and pathogen-response pathways in C. elegans. Whole-genome transcriptional profiling of the O-GlcNAc cycling mutants confirmed dramatic deregulation of genes in these key pathways. As predicted, the O-GlcNAc cycling mutants show altered lifespan and UV stress susceptibility phenotypes. We propose that O-GlcNAc cycling at promoters participates in a molecular program impacting nutrient-responsive pathways in C. elegans, including stress, pathogen response, and adult lifespan. The observed impact of O-GlcNAc cycling on both signaling and transcription in C. elegans has important implications for human diseases of aging, including diabetes and neurodegeneration.	Acetylglucosamine/ genetics;Animals;Caenorhabditis elegans/ genetics/metabolism;Carbohydrates/chemistry;Chromatin/genetics/metabolism;Epigenesis, Genetic;Gene Expression Profiling;Immune System;Insulin/metabolism;Lipids/chemistry;Longevity/ genetics;Operon;Phosphorylation;Promoter Regions, Genetic;Signal Transduction
Age-related micro-RNA abundance in individual C. elegans	M. Lucanic, et al.	2013	23793570	Non-coding small RNAs of the micro-RNA class (miRNA) are conserved regulators of gene function with a broad impact on biological processes. We screened miRNA levels for age-related changes in individual worms and investigated their influence on the lifespan of the nematode C. elegans. We measured the abundance of 69 miRNAs expressed in individual animals at different ages with over thirty five thousand discrete quantitative nano-fluidic polymerase chain reactions. We found that miRNA abundance was highly variable between individual worms raised under identical conditions and that expression variability generally increased with age. To identify expression differences associated with either reproductive or somatic tissues, we analyzed wild type and mutants that lacked germlines. miRNAs from the mir-35-41 cluster increased in abundance with age in wild type animals, but were nearly absent from mutants lacking a germline, suggesting their age-related increase originates from the germline. Most miRNAs with age-dependent levels did not have a major effect on lifespan, as corresponding deletion mutants exhibited wild-type lifespans. The major exception to this was mir-71, which increased in abundance with age and was required for normal longevity. Our genetic characterization indicates that mir-71 acts at least partly in parallel to insulin/IGF like signals to influence lifespan.	Aging/genetics/ physiology;Animals;Caenorhabditis elegans/ genetics/ physiology;Gene Expression Regulation/ physiology;Longevity/genetics;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Reproduction
Light-inducible antimiR-92a as a therapeutic strategy to promote skin repair in healing-impaired diabetic mice	T. Lucas, et al.	2017	28462946	MicroRNAs (miRs) are small non-coding RNAs that post-transcriptionally control gene expression. Inhibition of miRs by antisense RNAs (antimiRs) might be a therapeutic option for many diseases, but systemic inhibition can have adverse effects. Here we show that light-activatable antimiRs efficiently and locally restricted target miR activity in vivo. We use an antimiR-92a and establish a therapeutic benefit in diabetic wound healing. AntimiR-92a is modified with photolabile protecting groups, so called 'cages'. Irradiation activates intradermally injected caged antimiR-92a without substantially affecting miR-92a expression in other organs. Light activation of caged antimiR-92a improves healing in diabetic mice to a similar extent as conventional antimiRs and derepresses the miR-92a targets Itga5 and Sirt1, thereby regulating wound cell proliferation and angiogenesis. These data show that light can be used to locally activate therapeutically active antimiRs in vivo.	
A nutrigenomics approach for the study of anti-aging interventions: olive oil phenols and the modulation of gene and microRNA expression profiles in mouse brain	C. Luceri, et al.	2017	26695409	PURPOSE: Middle-aged C57Bl/6J mice fed for 6 months with extra-virgin olive oil rich in phenols (H-EVOO, phenol dose/day: 6 mg/kg) showed cognitive and motor improvement compared to controls fed the same olive oil deprived of phenolics (L-EVOO). The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether these behavioral modifications were associated with changes in gene and miRNA expression in the brain. METHODS: Two brain areas involved in cognitive and motor processes were chosen: cortex and cerebellum. Gene and miRNA profiling were analyzed by microarray and correlated with performance in behavioral tests. RESULTS: After 6 months, most of the gene expression changes were restricted to the cerebral cortex. The genes modulated by aging were mainly down-regulated, and the treatment with H-EVOO was associated with a significant up-regulation of genes compared to L-EVOO. Among those, we found genes previously associated with synaptic plasticity and with motor and cognitive behavior, such as Notch1, BMPs, NGFR, GLP1R and CRTC3. The agrin pathway was also significantly modulated. miRNAs were mostly up-regulated in old L-EVOO animals compared to young. However, H-EVOO-fed mice cortex displayed miRNA expression profiles similar to those observed in young mice. Sixty-three miRNAs, out of 1203 analyzed, were significantly down-regulated compared to the L-EVOO group; among them, we found miRNAs whose predicted target genes were up-regulated by the treatment, such as mir-484, mir-27, mir-137, mir-30, mir-34 and mir-124. CONCLUSIONS: We are among the first to report that a dietary intervention starting from middle age with food rich in phenols can modulate at the central level the expression of genes and miRNAs involved in neuronal function and synaptic plasticity, along with cognitive, motor and emotional behavior.	Aging brain;Genomics;Nutraceuticals;Phenolic compounds;miRNomics
Distribution of miRNA expression across human tissues	N. Ludwig, et al.	2016	26921406	We present a human miRNA tissue atlas by determining the abundance of 1997 miRNAs in 61 tissue biopsies of different organs from two individuals collected post-mortem. One thousand three hundred sixty-four miRNAs were discovered in at least one tissue, 143 were present in each tissue. To define the distribution of miRNAs, we utilized a tissue specificity index (TSI). The majority of miRNAs (82.9%) fell in a middle TSI range i.e. were neither specific for single tissues (TSI > 0.85) nor housekeeping miRNAs (TSI < 0.5). Nonetheless, we observed many different miRNAs and miRNA families that were predominantly expressed in certain tissues. Clustering of miRNA abundances revealed that tissues like several areas of the brain clustered together. Considering -3p and -5p mature forms we observed miR-150 with different tissue specificity. Analysis of additional lung and prostate biopsies indicated that inter-organism variability was significantly lower than inter-organ variability. Tissue-specific differences between the miRNA patterns appeared not to be significantly altered by storage as shown for heart and lung tissue. MiRNAs TSI values of human tissues were significantly (P = 10(-8)) correlated with those of rats; miRNAs that were highly abundant in certain human tissues were likewise abundant in according rat tissues. We implemented a web-based repository enabling scientists to access and browse the data (https://ccb-web.cs.uni-saarland.de/tissueatlas).	Adult;Aged;Animals;Databases, Nucleic Acid;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/classification/ metabolism;Organ Specificity;Rats;Reproducibility of Results;Tissue Distribution
Plasma Exosomal miRNAs in Persons with and without Alzheimer Disease: Altered Expression and Prospects for Biomarkers	G. Lugli, et al.	2015	26426747	To assess the value of exosomal miRNAs as biomarkers for Alzheimer disease (AD), the expression of microRNAs was measured in a plasma fraction enriched in exosomes by differential centrifugation, using Illumina deep sequencing. Samples from 35 persons with a clinical diagnosis of AD dementia were compared to 35 age and sex matched controls. Although these samples contained less than 0.1 microgram of total RNA, deep sequencing gave reliable and informative results. Twenty miRNAs showed significant differences in the AD group in initial screening (miR-23b-3p, miR-24-3p, miR-29b-3p, miR-125b-5p, miR-138-5p, miR-139-5p, miR-141-3p, miR-150-5p, miR-152-3p, miR-185-5p, miR-338-3p, miR-342-3p, miR-342-5p, miR-548at-5p, miR-659-5p, miR-3065-5p, miR-3613-3p, miR-3916, miR-4772-3p, miR-5001-3p), many of which satisfied additional biological and statistical criteria, and among which a panel of seven miRNAs were highly informative in a machine learning model for predicting AD status of individual samples with 83-89% accuracy. This performance is not due to over-fitting, because a) we used separate samples for training and testing, and b) similar performance was achieved when tested on technical replicate data. Perhaps the most interesting single miRNA was miR-342-3p, which was a) expressed in the AD group at about 60% of control levels, b) highly correlated with several of the other miRNAs that were significantly down-regulated in AD, and c) was also reported to be down-regulated in AD in two previous studies. The findings warrant replication and follow-up with a larger cohort of patients and controls who have been carefully characterized in terms of cognitive and imaging data, other biomarkers (e.g., CSF amyloid and tau levels) and risk factors (e.g., apoE4 status), and who are sampled repeatedly over time. Integrating miRNA expression data with other data is likely to provide informative and robust biomarkers in Alzheimer disease.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics;Animals;Biomarkers, Tumor/ metabolism;Case-Control Studies;Exosomes/ genetics;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Humans;Male;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Plasma/ metabolism
miR-132 mediates the integration of newborn neurons into the adult dentate gyrus	B. W. Luikart, et al.	2011	21611182	Neuronal activity enhances the elaboration of newborn neurons as they integrate into the synaptic circuitry of the adult brain. The role microRNAs play in the transduction of neuronal activity into growth and synapse formation is largely unknown. MicroRNAs can influence the expression of hundreds of genes and thus could regulate gene assemblies during processes like activity-dependent integration. Here, we developed viral-based methods for the in vivo detection and manipulation of the activity-dependent microRNA, miR-132, in the mouse hippocampus. We find, using lentiviral and retroviral reporters of miR-132 activity, that miR-132 is expressed at the right place and right time to influence the integration of newborn neurons. Retroviral knockdown of miR-132 using a specific 'sponge' containing multiple target sequences impaired the integration of newborn neurons into the excitatory synaptic circuitry of the adult brain. To assess potential miR-132 targets, we used a whole-genome microarray in PC12 cells, which have been used as a model of neuronal differentiation. miR-132 knockdown in PC12 cells resulted in the increased expression of hundreds of genes. Functional grouping indicated that genes involved in inflammatory/immune signaling were the most enriched class of genes induced by miR-132 knockdown. The correlation of miR-132 knockdown to increased proinflammatory molecular expression may indicate a mechanistic link whereby miR-132 functions as an endogenous mediator of activity-dependent integration in vivo.	Aging/ metabolism;Animals;Animals, Newborn;Cell Differentiation/genetics;Dendritic Spines/metabolism;Dentate Gyrus/ cytology/ metabolism;Excitatory Postsynaptic Potentials;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Genes, Reporter/genetics;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Inflammation/genetics;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neurons/cytology/ metabolism;PC12 Cells;Rats;Receptors, AMPA/metabolism;Retroviridae;Signal Transduction/genetics
Micro-RNA speciation in fetal, adult and Alzheimer's disease hippocampus	W. J. Lukiw	2007	17314675	Micro-RNAs constitute a family of small noncoding ribonucleic acids that are posttranscriptional regulators of messenger RNA activity. Although micro-RNAs are known to be dynamically regulated during neural development, the role of micro-RNAs in brain aging and neurodegeneration is not known. This study examined micro-RNA abundance in the hippocampal region of fetal, adult and Alzheimer's disease brain. The data indicate that micro-RNAs encoding miR-9, miR-124a, miR-125b, miR-128, miR-132 and miR-219 are abundantly represented in fetal hippocampus, are differentially regulated in aged brain, and an alteration in specific micro-RNA complexity occurs in Alzheimer hippocampus. These data are consistent with the idea that altered micro-RNA-mediated processing of messenger RNA populations may contribute to atypical mRNA abundance and neural dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease brain.	Aged;Aging/ genetics/metabolism;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/ metabolism/physiopathology;Evolution, Molecular;Fetus;Gene Expression Regulation/genetics;Hippocampus/embryology/ metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Weight;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional/genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism
Circular RNA (circRNA) in Alzheimer's disease (AD)	W. J. Lukiw	2013	24427167		Alzheimer's disease;circular RNAs;evolution;gene regulation;hippocampal CA1;miRNA-7;micro RNA;transcriptome
Variability in micro RNA (miRNA) abundance, speciation and complexity amongst different human populations and potential relevance to Alzheimer's disease (AD)	W. J. Lukiw	2013	23986657		Alzheimer's disease;african american;caucasian american;human biochemical individuality;human populations;miRNA profiling;miRNA speciation;superior temporal lobe neocortex
Antagonism of NF-kappaB-up-regulated micro RNAs (miRNAs) in sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD)-anti-NF-kappaB vs. anti-miRNA strategies	W. J. Lukiw	2013	23641256		
Spreading of Alzheimer's disease inflammatory signaling through soluble micro-RNA	W. J. Lukiw, et al.	2012	22660168	Alzheimer's disease is a progressive, neurodegenerative disorder that develops within the limbic system, spreading radially into anatomically linked brain association areas as the disease progresses. Analysis of temporal-lobe association of neocortex-derived extracellular fluid and cerebrospinal fluid from Alzheimer's disease patients shows an abundant presence of micro-RNA (miRNA), including the proinflammatory miRNA-146a and miRNA-155. Using a novel and highly sensitive LED-Northern dot-blot focusing technique, we detected the secretion of potentially pathogenic amounts of miRNA-146a and miRNA-155 from stressed human primary neural cells. A conditioned medium containing miRNA-146a and miRNA-155 was found to induce Alzheimer-type gene expression changes in control brain cells. These included downregulation in the expression of an important repressor of the innate immune response, complement factor H (CFH). These effects were neutralized using anti-miRNA strategies. Anti-miRNA-based therapeutics may provide a novel and efficacious treatment to stem the miRNA-mediated spreading of inflammatory signaling involved in Alzheimer's disease.	Alzheimer Disease/genetics/ pathology;Brain/drug effects/ pathology;Coculture Techniques;Culture Media, Conditioned/pharmacology;Humans;Inflammation Mediators/ physiology;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Signal Transduction/drug effects/ genetics;Solubility
Studying micro RNA Function and Dysfunction in Alzheimer's Disease	W. J. Lukiw, et al.	2012	23390425	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a tragic, progressive, age-related neurological dysfunction, representing one of the most prevalent neurodegenerative disorders in industrialized societies. Globally, 5 million new cases of AD are diagnosed annually, with one new AD case being reported every 7 s. Most recently there has been a surge in the study of the regulatory mechanisms of the AD process, and the particular significance of small non-coding approximately 22 ribonucleotide RNAs called micro RNAs (miRNAs). Abundant data have profiled miRNA patterns in healthy, aging brain, in mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and in the moderate- and late-stages of AD. The major mode of action of miRNA is to interact, via base-pair complementarity, with ribonucleotides located within the 3' untranslated region (3'-UTR) of multiple target messenger RNAs (mRNAs), and in doing so decrease the capability of that specific mRNA to be expressed. Many miRNAs are highly cell- and tissue-specific. The human brain appears to use only a highly specific fraction of all known human miRNAs, whose speciation and complexity are defined as a discrete subset of all known small non-coding RNAs (sncRNAs) in the brain. In general, in contrast to normally, aging human brain, in AD a family of pathogenically up-regulated miRNAs appear to be down-regulating the expression certain brain-essential mRNA targets, including key regulatory genes involved interactively in neuroinflammation, synaptogenesis, neurotrophic functions, and amyloidogenesis. These up-regulated, NF-kB-sensitive miRNAs, involved in the innate immune and inflammatory response and synaptic, neurotrophic, and amyloidogenic functions include miRNA-9, miRNA-125b, miRNA-146a, and miRNA-155. Other miRNAs of the miRNA-15/107 family, miRNA-153 and miRNA-190, and others, will be discussed. Overall, this manuscript will review the known contribution of miRNAs to aging brain function and the role they appear to play in the incidence and progression of AD.	Alzheimer's disease;aging;amyloidogenesis;inflammation;miRNA;neurotrophism;presenilin;synaptogenesis
Up-regulation of micro-RNA-221 (miRNA-221; chr Xp11.3) and caspase-3 accompanies down-regulation of the survivin-1 homolog BIRC1 (NAIP) in glioblastoma multiforme (GBM)	W. J. Lukiw, et al.	2009	18759060	Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) represents a class of malignant gliomas which rapidly proliferate, invade and destroy surrounding brain tissues. This study examined micro-RNA (miRNA) speciation and miRNA effects on gene expression in six ATCC glioma and GBM cell lines and in 14 glioma and GBM samples obtained from human brain biopsy. We observed selective up-regulation of miRNA-221 and down-regulation of a miRNA-221 messenger RNA target encoding the survivin-1 homolog BIRC1, a neuronal inhibitor of apoptosis protein (NIAP) and marker for neurodegeneration. The expression of BIRC5 (survivin-1) and caspase-3 were found to be significantly up-regulated, particularly in stage IV GBM. These studies suggest that the abundance and speciation of the BIRC family of neural cell fate regulators are differentially regulated in glioma and GBM, and may contribute to progressive changes in apoptotic signaling and altered neural cell cycling functions.	Adult;Analysis of Variance;Biopsy/methods;Caspase 3/ metabolism;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/ physiology;Glioblastoma/genetics/ metabolism;Glioma/genetics/metabolism;Humans;Inhibitor of Apoptosis Proteins;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Microtubule-Associated Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;Neuronal Apoptosis-Inhibitory Protein/genetics/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/metabolism
Acyclovir or Abeta42 peptides attenuate HSV-1-induced miRNA-146a levels in human primary brain cells	W. J. Lukiw, et al.	2010	20683212	Human brains harbor herpes simplex virus type-1 (HSV-1) DNA, which normally remains quiescent throughout many decades of life. HSV-1 is associated with viral encephalopathy and with the amyloid beta 42 (Abeta42) peptide-enriched lesions that characterize Alzheimer's disease neuropathology. Here we report that infection of human neuronal-glial cells in primary co-culture with HSV-1 induces an irregular hypertrophy of human neuronal-glial cell bodies, an induction of HSV-1 DNA polymerase, and an up-regulation of micro-RNA-146a associated with altered innate-immune responses. Presence of the antiviral acyclovir or soluble Abeta42 peptide significantly attenuated these neuropathological responses. The inhibitory effects of Abeta42 peptide were also observed in an HSV-1-infected CV-1 cell-based viral plaque assay. The results suggest that soluble Abeta42 peptide can invoke non-pathological and anti-viral effects through inactivation of an HSV-1 challenge to human brain cells by simple viral sequestration, viral destruction, or by complex neurogenetic mechanisms.	Acyclovir/ pharmacology;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ pharmacology;Antiviral Agents/ pharmacology;Cells, Cultured;Coculture Techniques;Down-Regulation/drug effects/genetics;Encephalitis, Herpes Simplex/drug therapy/genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Viral/drug effects/genetics;Herpesvirus 1, Human/ drug effects/ genetics/metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics/physiology;Neuroglia/drug effects/metabolism/virology;Peptide Fragments/ pharmacology;RNA, Viral/ biosynthesis;Up-Regulation/drug effects/genetics
Upregulation of micro RNA-146a (miRNA-146a), a marker for inflammatory neurodegeneration, in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD) and Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker (GSS) syndrome	W. J. Lukiw, et al.	2011	22043907	A mouse- and human-brain-abundant, nuclear factor (NF)-small ka, CyrillicB-regulated, micro RNA-146a (miRNA-146a) is an important modulator of the innate immune response and inflammatory signaling in specific immunological and brain cell types. Levels of miRNA-146a are induced in human brain cells challenged with at least five different species of single- or double-stranded DNA or RNA neurotrophic viruses, suggesting a broad role for miRNA-146a in the brain's innate immune response and antiviral immunity. Upregulated miRNA-146a is also observed in pro-inflammatory cytokine-, Abeta42 peptide- and neurotoxic metal-induced, oxidatively stressed human neuronal-glial primary cell cocultures, in murine scrapie and in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. In AD, miRNA-146a levels are found to progressively increase with disease severity and co-localize to brain regions enriched in inflammatory neuropathology. This study provides evidence of upregulation of miRNA-146a in extremely rare (incidence 1-10 per 100 million) human prion-based neurodegenerative disorders, including sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD) and Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker syndrome (GSS). The findings suggest that an upregulated miRNA-146a may be integral to innate immune or inflammatory brain cell responses in prion-mediated infections and to progressive and irreversible neurodegeneration of both the murine and human brain.	Amyloid beta-Peptides/pharmacology/ therapeutic use;Animals;Brain/drug effects/metabolism/pathology;Cells, Cultured;Creutzfeldt-Jakob Syndrome/ drug therapy/metabolism/pathology;Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker Disease/ drug therapy/metabolism/pathology;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ drug effects/genetics/metabolism;Neurogenic Inflammation/ drug therapy/metabolism/pathology;Neurons/drug effects/metabolism/pathology;Peptide Fragments/pharmacology/ therapeutic use;Up-Regulation/ drug effects
Induction of specific micro RNA (miRNA) species by ROS-generating metal sulfates in primary human brain cells	W. J. Lukiw and A. I. Pogue	2007	17629564	Iron- and aluminum-sulfate together, at nanomolar concentrations, trigger the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in cultures of human brain cells. Previous studies have shown that following ROS induction, a family of pathogenic brain genes that promote inflammatory signalling, cellular apoptosis and brain cell death is significantly over-expressed. Notably, iron- and aluminum-sulfate induce genes in cultured human brain cells that exhibit expression patterns similar to those observed to be up-regulated in moderate- to late-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study we have extended our investigations to analyze the expression of micro RNA (miRNA) populations in iron- and aluminum-sulfate treated human neural cells in primary culture. The main finding was that these ROS-generating neurotoxic metal sulfates also up-regulate a specific set of miRNAs that includes miR-9, miR-125b and miR-128. Notably, these same miRNAs are up-regulated in AD brain. These findings further support the idea that iron- and aluminum-sulfates induce genotoxicity via a ROS-mediated up-regulation of specific regulatory elements and pathogenic genes that redirect brain cell fate towards progressive dysfunction and apoptotic cell death.	Base Sequence;Brain/cytology/ drug effects/metabolism;Humans;Metals/ pharmacology;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Reactive Oxygen Species/ metabolism;Sulfates/ pharmacology
Common micro RNAs (miRNAs) target complement factor H (CFH) regulation in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in age-related macular degeneration (AMD)	W. J. Lukiw, et al.	2012	22509485	Alzheimer's disease (AD) and age-related macular degeneration (AMD) are complex and progressive inflammatory degenerations of the human neocortex and retina. Recent molecular, genetic and epigenetic evidence indicate that at least 4 micro RNAs (miRNAs) - including the NF-small ka, CyrillicB-regulated miRNA-9, miRNA-125b, miRNA-146a and miRNA-155 - are progressively up-regulated in both AD and AMD. This quartet of up-regulated miRNAs in turn down-regulate a small brain- and retinal-cell-relevant family of target mRNAs, including that encoding complement factor H (CFH), a major negative regulator of the innate immune and inflammatory response. Together miRNA-146a and miRNA-155 recognize an overlapping miRNA regulatory control (MiRC) region in the CFH 3'-untranslated region (3'- UTR; 5'-TTTAGTATTAA-3') to which either of these miRNAs may interact. Progressive, pathogenic increases in specific miRNA binding to the entire 232 nucleotide CFH 3'-UTR appears to be a major regulator of CFH expression down-regulation, and the inflammatory pathology that characterizes both AMD and AD. The data presented in this report provides evidence that up-regulation of brain- and retinal- abundant miRNAs, including miRNA-9, miRNA-125b, miRNA-146a and miRNA-155, are common to the pathogenetic mechanism of CFH deficiency that drives inflammatory neurodegeneration, and for the first time indicates multiple, independent miRNA-mediated regulation of the CFH mRNA 3'-UTR.	Brain;complement factor H;evolution;miRNA regulatory control (MiRC) region;miRNA-125b;miRNA-146a;miRNA-155;miRNA-9;micro RNA;retina;small non-coding RNA
An NF-kappaB-sensitive micro RNA-146a-mediated inflammatory circuit in Alzheimer disease and in stressed human brain cells	W. J. Lukiw, et al.	2008	18801740	Human brains retain discrete populations of micro RNA (miRNA) species that support homeostatic brain gene expression functions; however, specific miRNA abundance is significantly altered in neurological disorders such as Alzheimer disease (AD) when compared with age-matched controls. Here we provide evidence in AD brains of a specific up-regulation of an NF-kappaB-sensitive miRNA-146a highly complementary to the 3'-untranslated region of complement factor H (CFH), an important repressor of the inflammatory response of the brain. Up-regulation of miRNA-146a coupled to down-regulation of CFH was observed in AD brain and in interleukin-1beta, Abeta42, and/or oxidatively stressed human neural (HN) cells in primary culture. Transfection of HN cells using an NF-kappaB-containing pre-miRNA-146a promoter-luciferase reporter construct in stressed HN cells showed significant up-regulation of luciferase activity that paralleled decreases in CFH gene expression. Treatment of stressed HN cells with the NF-kappaB inhibitor pyrollidine dithiocarbamate or the resveratrol analog CAY10512 abrogated this response. Incubation of an antisense oligonucleotide to miRNA-146a (anti-miRNA-146a; AM-146a) was found to restore CFH expression levels. These data indicate that NF-kappaB-sensitive miRNA-146a-mediated modulation of CFH gene expression may in part regulate an inflammatory response in AD brain and in stressed HN cell models of AD and illustrate the potential for anti-miRNAs as an effective therapeutic strategy against pathogenic inflammatory signaling.	Alzheimer Disease/genetics/ metabolism/ pathology;Amyloid beta-Peptides/pharmacology;Base Sequence;Brain/metabolism/ pathology;Cells, Cultured;Complement Factor H/metabolism;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects/genetics;Genes, Reporter;Humans;Hydrogen Peroxide/pharmacology;Inflammation Mediators/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics;NF-kappa B/ metabolism;Peptide Fragments/pharmacology;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Sensitivity and Specificity;Stress, Physiological;Transcription, Genetic/drug effects/genetics
Monosodium luminol upregulates the expression of Bcl-2 and VEGF in retrovirus-infected mice through downregulation of corresponding miRNAs	G. Lungu, et al.	2010	20201611	The retrovirus ts1 is a mutant of Moloney murine leukemia virus (MoMuLV) that causes neurodegeneration (ND) in susceptible mice. Our previous studies showed that the antioxidant drug monosodium luminol (GVT) prevented the development of ND in ts1-infected mice. In this study, we analyzed effect of GVT on the expression of B-cell lymphoma-2 protein (Bcl-2) and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in central nervous system (CNS) tissues of these animals. Our data showed that GVT treatment of ts1-infected mice significantly increased their expression of Bcl-2 and VEGF in brainstem compared with ts1-infected untreated mice. We also studied the expression of specific microRNAs (miRNAs) such as miRNA-15 and -16 (targeting Bcl-2), and miRNA-20 (targeting VEGF). We found that the expression of miRNAs inversely correlated with the upregulation of their target proteins in ts1-infected untreated as well as in GVT-treated-ts1-infected mice. The data showed that GVT treatment prevented ts1-induced ND at least in part by upregulating Bcl-2 and VEGF expression, what likely occurred as a consequence of downregulation of their corresponding miRNAs.	Animals;Brain Stem/metabolism/virology;Down-Regulation;Humans;Luminol/metabolism/pharmacology/ therapeutic use;Mice;MicroRNAs/ drug effects;Moloney murine leukemia virus/genetics/ pathogenicity;Mutation;Nerve Degeneration/prevention & control;Proto-Oncogene Proteins/ drug effects/genetics/metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2;Treatment Outcome;Up-Regulation/ drug effects;Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A/ drug effects/genetics/metabolism
MicroRNA profiling and the role of microRNA-132 in neurodegeneration using a rat model	G. Lungu, et al.	2013	23973300	MicroRNAs (miRs) are endogenous small RNAs that regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level by mediating mRNA degradation or transcriptional inhibition. MiRs were implicated in the pathogenesis of numerous neurodegenerative diseases, including Parkinson's disease (PD). In this study we analyzed the possible role of miRs in the neurodegenerative process in a spontaneous autosomal recessive rat model for neurodegeneration developed in our laboratory. To investigate the role of miRs in the etiology of PD, we conducted miR expression profiling using microarrays. We found 20 miRs that are deregulated in affected rats and many of these are implicated in neurodegenerative disease, including PD. In this study we were particularly interested in the expression of miR-132, a miR that has been reported to be highly expressed in neurons, and to have a potential role in neurodegenerative diseases. We found a significant increase in miR-132 in affected rats by microarray and the result was confirmed by qPCR. Next we analyzed one of the known downstream targets of miR-132, nuclear receptor related 1 protein (Nurr1), which is essential in neurogenesis of midbrain dopaminergic neurons. Western blot analysis and immunohistochemistry revealed a significant decrease in Nurr1 protein expression in the mesencephalic neurons. Finally, we found a significant decrease in both serum and mesencephalon brain tissue of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), which is known to be a direct target of Nurr1. Taken together, our findings suggest that miR-132 can regulate Nurr1 levels and might influence the development and function of midbrain dopaminergic neurons.	Animals;Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Mesencephalon/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Nerve Degeneration/ metabolism;Nuclear Receptor Subfamily 4, Group A, Member 2/metabolism;Rats;Bdnf;MicroRNA;MicroRNA-132;Neurodegeneration;Nurr1;Rat model
Genome-wide analysis of miRNA signature in the APPswe/PS1DeltaE9 mouse model of alzheimer's disease	H. Luo, et al.	2014	25148207	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia. One of the pathological hallmarks of AD is amyloid beta (Abeta) deposition. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs whose expression levels change significantly during neuronal pathogenesis and may be used as diagnostic markers. Some miRNAs are important in AD development by targeting genes responsible for Abeta metabolism. However, a systematic assessment of the miRNA expression profile induced by Abeta-mediated neuronal pathogenesis is still lacking. In the present study, we examined miRNA expression profile by using the APPswe/PS1DeltaE9 mouse model of AD. Two sibling pairs of mice were examined, showing 30 and 24 miRNAs with significantly altered expression levels from each paired control, respectively. Nine known miRNAs were common in both groups. Prediction of putative target genes and functional annotation implied that these altered miRNAs affect many target genes mainly involved in PI3K/Akt signaling pathway. This study provides a general profile of miRNAs regulated by Abeta-associated signal pathways, which is helpful to understand the mechanism of Abeta-induced neuronal dysfunction in AD development.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/genetics;Animals;Brain/metabolism;Computational Biology;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Genome-Wide Association Study;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Annotation;Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases/metabolism;Presenilin-1/genetics;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/metabolism;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Transcriptome
MicroRNA-449a is downregulated in non-small cell lung cancer and inhibits migration and invasion by targeting c-Met	W. Luo, et al.	2013	23734217	MicroRNA-449a is expressed at a low level in several tumors and cancer cell lines, and induces G1 arrest, apoptosis, and senescence. To identify the function of miR-449a in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), we discussed the potential relevance of miR-449a to clinicopathological characteristics and prognosis in NSCLC. We also investigated the impact of miR-449a on migration and invasion in NSCLC cells. The expression of miR-449a in NSCLC tissues and cell lines was detected using RT-qPCR. In vitro, gain-of-function, loss-of-function experiments, and fluorescence assays were performed to identify the potential target of miR-449a and the function of miR-449a in NSCLC cells. MiR-449a was downregulated in both NSCLC tissues and cell lines. Moreover, a low expression level of miR-449a appeared to be correlated with lymph node metastasis and poor survival. In vitro, miR-449 regulated cell migration and invasion in NSCLC cells as a potential tumor suppressor, at least in part by targeting c-Met. Furthermore, reciprocal expression of miR-449a and c-Met was shown in NSCLC tissue samples. This study indicates that miR-449a might be associated with NSCLC progression, and suggests a crucial role for miR-449a in NSCLC.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Adult;Aged;Base Sequence;Blotting, Western;Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Cell Line;Cell Movement/ genetics;Down-Regulation;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Kaplan-Meier Estimate;Lung Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Lymphatic Metastasis;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;Neoplasm Invasiveness;Prognosis;Proportional Hazards Models;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-met/ genetics/metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction/statistics & numerical data;Young Adult
Identification and evaluation of plasma microRNAs for early detection of colorectal cancer	X. Luo, et al.	2013	23690963	BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most commonly diagnosed cancers. Circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) have been suggested as potentially promising markers for early detection of CRC. We aimed to identify and evaluate a panel of miRNAs that might be suitable for CRC early detection. METHODS: MiRNAs were profiled by TaqMan MicroRNA Array and screened for differential expression in 5 pools of plasma samples of CRC patients (N = 50) and 5 pools of neoplasm-free controls (N = 50). Additional miRNAs were selected from a literature review. Identified candidates were evaluated in independent validation samples with respect to discrimination of CRC patients (N = 80) or advanced adenoma patients (N = 50) and neoplasm-free controls (N = 194). Diagnostic performance of the panel of miRNAs was assessed by multiple logistic regression, using bootstrap analysis to correct for over-optimism. RESULTS: Five miRNAs identified to be differentially expressed from TaqMan MicroRNA Array (miR-29a, -106b, -133a, -342-3p, -532-3p), and seven miRNAs reported to be differentially expressed in the literature (miR-18a, -20a, -21, -92a, -143, -145, -181b) were selected for validation. Nine of the twelve miRNAs (miR-18a, -20a, -21, -29a, -92a, -106b, -133a, -143, -145) were found to be differentially expressed in CRC patients and controls in the validation samples. The optimism-corrected area under the curve was 0.745 (95% confidence interval: 0.708-0.846). None of the selected miRNAs showed significant differential expression between advanced adenoma patients and neoplasm-free controls. CONCLUSION: The identified panel of miRNAs could be of potential use in the development of a multi-marker blood based test for early detection of CRC. IMPACT: The study underscores the high potential of plasma miRNAs for the improvement of current offers of non-invasive CRC screening.	Aged;Biomarkers, Tumor/ blood/ genetics;Case-Control Studies;Colorectal Neoplasms/ blood/ diagnosis/genetics/pathology;Early Detection of Cancer/ methods;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/genetics;Middle Aged;Neoplasm Staging;Reproducibility of Results
Mir-23a induces telomere dysfunction and cellular senescence by inhibiting TRF2 expression	Z. Luo, et al.	2015	25753893	Telomeric repeat binding factor 2 (TRF2) is essential for telomere maintenance and has been implicated in DNA damage response and aging. Telomere dysfunction induced by TRF2 inhibition can accelerate cellular senescence in human fibroblasts. While previous work has demonstrated that a variety of factors can regulate TRF2 expression transcriptionally and post-translationally, whether microRNAs (miRNAs) also participate in post-transcriptionally modulating TRF2 levels remains largely unknown. To better understand the regulatory pathways that control TRF2, we carried out a large-scale luciferase reporter screen using a miRNA expression library and identified four miRNAs that could target human TRF2 and significantly reduce the level of endogenous TRF2 proteins. In particular, our data revealed that miR-23a could directly target the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) of TRF2. Overexpression of miR-23a not only reduced telomere-bound TRF2 and increased telomere dysfunction-induced foci (TIFs), but also accelerated senescence of human fibroblast cells, which could be rescued by ectopically expressed TRF2. Our findings demonstrate that TRF2 is a specific target of miR-23a, and uncover a previously unknown role for miR-23a in telomere regulation and cellular senescence.	Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Proliferation/ physiology;DNA Damage/genetics;Fibroblasts/metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Telomere/ metabolism;Telomeric Repeat Binding Protein 2/ metabolism;Trf2;cellular senescence;luciferase reporter screen;miR-23a;telomere dysfunction
MicroRNAs in Human Cerebrospinal Fluid as Biomarkers for Alzheimer's Disease	T. A. Lusardi, et al.	2017	27814298	BACKGROUND: Currently available biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) include cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) protein analysis and amyloid PET imaging, each of which has limitations. The discovery of extracellular microRNAs (miRNAs) in CSF raises the possibility that miRNA may serve as novel biomarkers of AD. OBJECTIVE: Investigate miRNAs in CSF obtained from living donors as biomarkers for AD. METHODS: We profiled miRNAs in CSF from 50 AD patients and 49 controls using TaqMan(R) arrays. Replicate studies performed on a subset of 32 of the original CSF samples verified 20 high confidence miRNAs. Stringent data analysis using a four-step statistical selection process including log-rank and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) tests, followed by random forest tests, identified 16 additional miRNAs that discriminate AD from controls. Multimarker modeling evaluated linear combinations of these miRNAs via best-subsets logistic regression, and computed area under the ROC (AUC) curve ascertained classification performance. The influence of ApoE genotype on miRNA biomarker performance was also evaluated. RESULTS: We discovered 36 miRNAs that discriminate AD from control CSF. 20 of these retested in replicate studies verified differential expression between AD and controls. Stringent statistical analysis also identified these 20 miRNAs, and 16 additional miRNA candidates. Top-performing linear combinations of 3 and 4 miRNAs have AUC of 0.80-0.82. Addition of ApoE genotype to the model improved performance, i.e., AUC of 3 miRNA plus ApoE4 improves to 0.84. CONCLUSIONS: CSF miRNAs can discriminate AD from controls. Combining miRNAs improves sensitivity and specificity of biomarker performance, and adding ApoE genotype improves classification.	Alzheimer's disease;ApoE;Pcr;biomarker;cerebrospinal fluid;microRNA
Molecular Mechanisms Regulating LPS-Induced Inflammation in the Brain	O. Lykhmus, et al.	2016	27013966	Neuro-inflammation, one of the pathogenic causes of neurodegenerative diseases, is regulated through the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway via the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (alpha7 nAChR). We previously showed that either bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) or immunization with the alpha7(1-208) nAChR fragment decrease alpha7 nAChRs density in the mouse brain, exacerbating chronic inflammation, beta-amyloid accumulation and episodic memory decline, which mimic the early stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD). To study the molecular mechanisms underlying the LPS and antibody effects in the brain, we employed an in vivo model of acute LPS-induced inflammation and an in vitro model of cultured glioblastoma U373 cells. Here, we report that LPS challenge decreased the levels of alpha7 nAChR RNA and protein and of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) RNA and activity in distinct mouse brain regions, sensitized brain mitochondria to the apoptogenic effect of Ca(2+) and modified brain microRNA profiles, including the cholinergic-regulatory CholinomiRs-132/212, in favor of anti-inflammatory and pro-apoptotic ones. Adding alpha7(1-208)-specific antibodies to the LPS challenge prevented elevation of both the anti-inflammatory and pro-apoptotic miRNAs while supporting the resistance of brain mitochondria to Ca(2+) and maintaining alpha7 nAChR/AChE decreases. In U373 cells, alpha7-specific antibodies and LPS both stimulated interleukin-6 production through the p38/Src-dependent pathway. Our findings demonstrate that acute LPS-induced inflammation induces the cholinergic anti-inflammatory pathway in the brain, that alpha7 nAChR down-regulation limits this pathway, and that alpha7-specific antibodies aggravate neuroinflammation by inducing the pro-inflammatory interleukin-6 and dampening anti-inflammatory miRNAs; however, these antibodies may protect brain mitochondria and decrease the levels of pro-apoptotic miRNAs, preventing LPS-induced neurodegeneration.	acetylcholine esterase;antibody;brain;inflammation;microRNA;alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor
Dicer cooperates with p53 to suppress DNA damage and skin carcinogenesis in mice	S. Lyle, et al.	2014	24979267	Dicer is required for the maturation of microRNA, and loss of Dicer and miRNA processing has been found to alter numerous biological events during embryogenesis, including the development of mammalian skin and hair. We have previously examined the role of miRNA biogenesis in mouse embryonic fibroblasts and found that deletion of Dicer induces cell senescence regulated, in part, by the p53 tumor suppressor. Although Dicer and miRNA molecules are thought to have either oncogenic or tumor suppressing roles in various types of cancer, a role for Dicer and miRNAs in skin carcinogenesis has not been established. Here we show that perinatal ablation of Dicer in the skin of mice leads to loss of fur in adult mice, increased epidermal cell proliferation and apoptosis, and the accumulation of widespread DNA damage in epidermal cells. Co-ablation of Dicer and p53 did not alter the timing or extent of fur loss, but greatly reduced survival of Dicer-skin ablated mice, as these mice developed multiple and highly aggressive skin carcinomas. Our results describe a new mouse model for spontaneous basal and squamous cell tumorigenesis. Furthermore, our findings reveal that loss of Dicer in the epidermis induces extensive DNA damage, activation of the DNA damage response and p53-dependent apoptosis, and that Dicer and p53 cooperate to suppress mammalian skin carcinogenesis.	Animals;Animals, Newborn;Apoptosis;Carcinogenesis/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Carcinoma, Basal Cell/ genetics/metabolism/mortality/pathology;Carcinoma, Squamous Cell/ genetics/metabolism/mortality/pathology;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/ genetics/metabolism;DNA Damage;Fetus;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Hair/metabolism/pathology;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Ribonuclease III/ genetics/metabolism;Skin/metabolism/pathology;Skin Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism/mortality/pathology;Survival Analysis;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ genetics/metabolism
MicroRNA expression profiles from eggs of different qualities associated with post-ovulatory ageing in rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss)	H. Ma, et al.	2015	25885637	BACKGROUND: Egg quality is an important aspect in rainbow trout farming. Post-ovulatory aging is one of the most important factors affecting egg quality. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are the major regulators in various biological processes and their expression profiles could serve as reliable biomarkers for various pathological and physiological conditions. The objective of this study was to identify miRNAs that are associated with egg qualities in rainbow trout using post-ovulatory aged eggs. RESULTS: Egg samples from females on day 1, day 7, and day 14 post-ovulation (D1PO, D7PO and D14PO), which had the fertilization rates of 91.8%, 73.4% and less than 50%, respectively, were collected and small RNAs isolated from these samples were subjected to deep sequencing using the Illumina platform. The massive sequencing produced 27,342,477, 26,910,438 and 29,185,371 reads from the libraries of D1PO, D7PO and D14PO eggs, respectively. A three-way comparison of the miRNAs indicated that the egg samples shared 392 known and 236 novel miRNAs, and a total of 414, 481, and 470 known and 243, 298, and 296 novel miRNAs were identified from D1PO, D7PO and D14PO eggs, respectively. Four known miRNAs (omy-miR-193b-3p, omy-miR-203c-3p, omy-miR-499-5p and omy-miR-7550-3p) and two novel miRNAs (omy-miR-nov-95-5p and omy-miR-nov-112-5p) showed significantly higher expression in D1PO eggs relative to D14PO eggs as revealed by both deep sequencing and real time quantitative PCR analysis. GO analysis of the predicted target genes of these differentially expressed miRNAs revealed significantly enriched GO terms that are related to stress response, cell death, DNA damage, ATP generation, signal transduction and transcription regulation. CONCLUSIONS: Results indicate that post-ovulatory ageing affects miRNA expression profiles in rainbow trout eggs, which can in turn impact egg quality. Further characterization of the differentially expressed miRNAs and their target genes may provide valuable information on the role of these miRNAs in controlling egg quality, and ultimately lead to the development of biomarkers for prediction of egg quality in rainbow trout.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Cluster Analysis;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Ovum/ metabolism;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Transcriptome;Trout/ genetics
The balance mediated by miRNAs and the heme oxygenase 1 feedback loop contributes to biological effects	N. Ma, et al.	2013	23939757	Heme oxygenase-1 (HMOX1) is a ubiquitously expressed inducible enzyme that degrades heme to carbon monoxide, biliverdin, and free iron ions. Since 1950, many studies have revealed the role of HMOX1 in reducing the impact of oxidative stress in many types of diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, heart disease, and the development of tumors. These effects arise as a result of the removal of heme, the biological activities of the products of HMOX1 and the activity of HMOX1 itself. However, HMOX1 has some contradictory effects. The discovery of microRNAs (miRNAs) and their relationship with HMOX1 has provided a new direction for research in this field. Here, we discuss the role of a potential regulatory feedback loop between HMOX1 and miRNAs in pathological processes based on recently published data. We hope to describe a new mechanism for HMOX1 function based on miRNAs to address the contradictory results reported in the literature.	Alzheimer Disease/enzymology/ genetics/pathology;Enzyme Induction;Feedback, Physiological;Heme Oxygenase-1/ genetics/metabolism;Humans;Iron/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Oxidative Stress;Feedback loop;Heme oxygenase-1;Targets pools;microRNA
MicroRNA-181c Exacerbates Brain Injury in Acute Ischemic Stroke	Q. Ma, et al.	2016	28053821	MicroRNA-181 (miR-181) is highly expressed in the brain, and downregulated in miRNA expression profiles of acute ischemic stroke patients. However, the roles of miR-181c in stroke are not known. The clinical relevance of miR-181c in acute stroke patients was evaluated by real-time PCR and correlation analyses. Proliferation and apoptosis of BV2 microglial cells and Neuro-2a cells cultured separately or together under oxidative stress or inflammation were assessed with the Cell Counting Kit-8 and by flow cytometry, respectively. Cerebral ischemia was induced by middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in C57/BL6 mice, and cerebral infarct volume, microglia activation, and expression of pro-apoptotic factors were evaluated by 2,3,5-triphenyl-2H-tetrazolium chloride staining, immunocytochemistry, and western blotting, respectively. Plasma levels of miR-181c were decreased in stroke patients relative to healthy individuals, and were positively correlated with neutrophil number and blood platelet count and negatively correlated with lymphocyte number. Lipopolysaccharide (LPS)/hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) treatment inhibited BV2 microglia proliferation without inducing apoptosis, while miR-181c reduced proliferation but increased the apoptosis of these cells with or without LPS/H2O2 treatment. LPS/H2O2 induced apoptosis in Neuro-2a cells co-cultured with BV2 cells, an effect that was potentiated by miR-181c. In the MCAO model, miR-181c agomir modestly increased infarct volume, markedly decreased microglia activation and B cell lymphoma-2 expression, and increased the levels of pro-apoptotic proteins in the ischemic brain. Our data indicate that miR-181c contributes to brain injury in acute ischemic stroke by promoting apoptosis of microglia and neurons via modulation of pro- and anti-apoptotic proteins.	apoptosis;microRNA-181;microglia;neuron;stroke
A Single-Nucleotide Polymorphism in 3'-Untranslated Region of Endothelin-1 Reduces Risk of Dementia After Ischemic Stroke	W. Ma, et al.	2016	27106952	BACKGROUND Ischemic stroke is widely recognized as a major health problem and social burden worldwide, and it usually leads to dementia. In this study, we aimed to better understand the pathogenesis in the development of dementia following ischemic stroke. MATERIAL AND METHODS We exploited miRNA database to search for the target for miR-125a and validated the found target using luciferase assay. Further, we performed real-time PCR and Western blot analysis to examine the expression of miR-125a and its target in the tissue samples. In addition, a polymorphism was genotyped and its association with post-stroke dementia was analyzed. RESULTS We identified enthothelin-1 (ET-1) as a target of miR-125a, and this relationship was validated using luciferase assay. Furthermore, transfection of miR-125a inhibitor substantially upregulated the expression of ET-1, while miR-125a and ET-1 siRNA caused downregulation of ET-1 in endothelial cells. In addition, we found that a polymorphism (rs12976445) interferes with the expression of miR-125a, which in turn caused an increase in the expression of ET-1 in human endothelial cells. Logistic regression analysis showed that rs12976445 is significantly associated with the risk of dementia after ischemic stroke. CONCLUSIONS Our study demonstrated the pathogenesis mechanism during the development of dementia after ischemic stroke by investigating the relationship between miR-125a and its target ET-1, promising a potential pathological solution for post-stroke dementia in the future.	3' Untranslated Regions/ genetics;Base Sequence;Brain Ischemia/ complications;Case-Control Studies;Dementia/etiology/ genetics;Demography;Endothelin-1/ genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells/metabolism;Humans;Luciferases/metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide/ genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Stroke/ complications;Transfection
Interaction of the oncogenic miR-21 microRNA and the p53 tumor suppressor pathway	X. Ma, et al.	2013	23385064	MicroRNA-21 (miR-21) is overexpressed virtually in all human cancers and displays oncogenic activity in a transgenic murine model. Similarly, the p53 tumor suppressor gene is the most frequently mutated gene in human cancer, and its loss or mutation leads to tumor formation in mice. To ascertain the role of miR-21 in the p53 pathway in vivo and to characterize their interaction in tumorigenesis, we intercrossed the miR-21 (-/-) and Trp53 (-/-) mice. We found that Trp53 (-/-) miR-21 (-/-) mice develop tumors at a slightly later age, yet show a similar tumor spectrum and survival curve as Trp53 (-/-) mice. When subjected to genotoxic agents, tissues from Trp53 (-/-) miR-21 (-/-) mice have a higher percentage of apoptotic cells. We extracted mouse embryonic fibroblast cells (MEFs) to examine the impact of miR-21 loss on p53-regulated cellular processes in Trp53 (-/-) cells. Higher cellular apoptosis and senescence were found in Trp53 (-/-) miR-21 (-/-) MEFs than in Trp53 (-/-) MEFs. In addition, loss of miR-21 sensitizes transformed Trp53 (-/-) cells to DNA damage-induced apoptosis through elevation of Pten expression. These data suggest that inhibition of miR-21 would be beneficial in apoptosis-inducing cancer therapies directed against p53-deficient tumors.	Animals;Antibiotics, Antineoplastic/pharmacology;Apoptosis/ drug effects/genetics;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Cycle/genetics;Cell Proliferation/drug effects;Cell Transformation, Neoplastic/genetics;DNA Damage;Disease Models, Animal;Doxorubicin/pharmacology;Fibroblasts/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neoplasms/drug therapy/genetics/ metabolism;PTEN Phosphohydrolase/biosynthesis;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ metabolism
miR-1908 Overexpression Inhibits Proliferation, Changing Akt Activity and p53 Expression in Hypoxic NSCLC Cells	Y. Ma, et al.	2016	27178817	The ribosomal protein (RP)-p53 pathway has been shown to play a key role in apoptosis and senescence of cancer cells. miR-1908 is a newly found miRNA that was reported to have prognostic potential in melanoma. However, its role and mechanism in the progression of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) are largely unknown. In this study, we found that expression of miR-1908 was significantly downregulated in human NSCLC cell lines, including SK-MES-1, A549, and NCI-H460. Then the role of miR-1908 in NSCLC cell proliferation was explored. The miR-1908 mimic was transfected into NSCLC cell lines, and their proliferation was detected. MTT and Cell Titer-Blue H analyses showed that the cell proliferation was notably reduced by the miR-1908 mimic transfection. Moreover, we found the RP-p53 pathway was activated by miR-1908 mimic. Moreover, the miR-1908 inhibitor transfection had a completely opposite effect on the NSCLC cell proliferation than that of miR-1908 mimic. To explore the underlying mechanism of that, TargetScan bioinformatics server and 3'-UTR luciferase reporter assay were applied to identify the targets of miR-1908. Our results showed that AKT1 substrate 1 (AKT1S1), a newly proven suppressor of the RP-p53 pathway, was a target of miR-1908, suggesting a probable mechanism for miR-191 suppressing NSCLC cell proliferation. Our findings provide a novel molecular target for the regulation of NSCLC cell proliferation.	A549 Cells;Adaptor Proteins, Signal Transducing/genetics;Apoptosis/genetics;Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung/ genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation/ genetics;Down-Regulation/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/genetics;Humans;Hypoxia/ genetics;Lung Neoplasms/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/ genetics;Transfection/methods;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ genetics
MicroRNAs in Salivary Exosome as Potential Biomarkers of Aging	T. Machida, et al.	2015	26370963	The aim of this study was to examine whether salivary exosomal miRNAs could be identified as aging biomarkers. Fifteen young healthy volunteers (median age, 21.0 years) and 13 old individuals (median age, 66.0 years) were recruited. Unstimulated whole saliva was collected, salivary exosomes were isolated, and total RNA was extracted. In a microarray, 242 miRNAs were commonly detected in these two mixed samples. Based on the cut-off values of 2- or 0.5-fold changes (FC) and regulatory power for aging process, six candidate miRNAs (miR-24-3p, miR-371a-5p, miR-3175, miR-3162-5p, miR-671-5p, and miR-4667-5p) were selected. After comparing each total RNA obtained by the 15 young and 13 old individuals to validate the FC values using quantitative real-time PCR, miR-24-3p was identified as a novel candidate aging biomarker. This pilot study suggested that salivary exosomal miRNAs could be identified as candidate aging biomarkers. To confirm whether miR-24-3p in salivary exosomes are suitable biomarkers of aging, further validation research is required.	Adult;Age Factors;Aged;Aging/ genetics/ metabolism;Biomarkers;Computational Biology/methods;Exosomes;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs;Middle Aged;ROC Curve;Saliva/ metabolism;Young Adult;aging;exosome;microRNA;saliva
Oligodendroglial TNFR2 Mediates Membrane TNF-Dependent Repair in Experimental Autoimmune Encephalomyelitis by Promoting Oligodendrocyte Differentiation and Remyelination	P. M. Madsen, et al.	2016	27147664	UNLABELLED: Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is associated with the pathophysiology of various neurological disorders, including multiple sclerosis. It exists as a transmembrane form tmTNF, signaling via TNF receptor 2 (TNFR2) and TNFR1, and a soluble form, solTNF, signaling via TNFR1. Multiple sclerosis is associated with the detrimental effects of solTNF acting through TNFR1, while tmTNF promotes repair and remyelination. Here we demonstrate that oligodendroglial TNFR2 is a key mediator of tmTNF-dependent protection in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). CNP-cre:TNFR2(fl/fl) mice with TNFR2 ablation in oligodendrocytes show exacerbation of the disease with increased axon and myelin pathology, reduced remyelination, and increased loss of oligodendrocyte precursor cells and mature oligodendrocytes. The clinical course of EAE is not improved by the solTNF inhibitor XPro1595 in CNP-cre:TNFR2(fl/fl) mice, indicating that for tmTNF to promote recovery TNFR2 in oligodendrocytes is required. We show that TNFR2 drives differentiation of oligodendrocyte precursor cells, but not proliferation or survival. TNFR2 ablation leads to dysregulated expression of microRNAs, among which are regulators of oligodendrocyte differentiation and inflammation, including miR-7a. Our data provide the first direct in vivo evidence that TNFR2 in oligodendrocytes is important for oligodendrocyte differentiation, thereby sustaining tmTNF-dependent repair in neuroimmune disease. Our studies identify TNFR2 in the CNS as a molecular target for the development of remyelinating agents, addressing the most pressing need in multiple sclerosis therapy nowadays. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Our study, using novel TNF receptor 2 (TNFR2) conditional KO mice with selective TNFR2 ablation in oligodendrocytes, provides the first direct evidence that TNFR2 is an important signal for oligodendrocyte differentiation. Following activation by transmembrane TNF, TNFR2 initiates pathways that drive oligodendrocytes into a reparative mode contributing to remyelination following disease. This identifies TNFR2 as a new molecular target for the development of therapeutic agents in multiple sclerosis.	cytokine;demyelination;multiple sclerosis;neurodegeneration;neuroinflammation;remyelination
Murine microRNAs implicated in liver functions and aging process	O. C. Maes, et al.	2008	18561983	Small non-coding microRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in gene regulation in various cellular and developmental processes, including mechanisms of aging. Here, the mouse liver was used as a paradigm for the study of miRNAs implicated in the aging process in mammals. Expression profiling of 367 murine miRNAs (Sanger Version 8.2) was assessed in livers from 4 to 33 months old mice, and their predicted targets were compared with proteomic profiling data generated from the same animals. Gradual increases in the levels of miR-669c and miR-709 were observed from mid-age of 18-33 months, while miR-93 and miR-214 were significantly up-regulated only in extremely old liver. In contrast, we did not identify any miRNAs showing significant down-regulation with age. Interestingly, the up-regulated miRNAs' targets are associated with detoxification activity and regeneration capacity functions known to decline in old liver. In particular, three up-regulated miRNAs may contribute to the aging-related decline in oxidative defense by targeting various classes of glutathione S-transferases. Other proteins in decline in old liver and targeted by the up-regulated miRNAs are involved in mitochondrial functions or maintenance. Taken together, we identified the up-regulation of key miRNAs that may participate in the decline of regeneration and oxidative defense mechanisms in aging liver.	Aging/ genetics/physiology;Animals;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/physiology;Liver/ physiology;Liver Function Tests;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/genetics/ physiology;Up-Regulation/genetics
Changes in MicroRNA expression patterns in human fibroblasts after low-LET radiation	O. C. Maes, et al.	2008	18729083	Exposure to radiation provokes cellular responses controlled in part by gene expression networks. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs which mostly regulate gene expression by degrading the messages or inhibiting translation. Here, we investigated changes in miRNA expression patterns after low (0.1 Gy) and high (2.0 Gy) doses of X-ray in human fibroblasts. At early (0.5 h) and late (6 and 24 h) time points, irradiation caused qualitative and quantitative differences in the down-regulation of miRNA levels, including miR-92b, 137, 660, and 656. A transient up-regulation of miRNAs was observed after 2 h post-irradiation following high doses of radiation, including miR-558 and 662. MicroRNA levels were inversely correlated with targets from mRNA and proteomic profiling after 2.0 Gy of radiation. MicroRNAs miR-579, 608, 548-3p, and 585 are noted for targeting genes involved in radioresponsive mechanisms, such as cell cycle checkpoint and apoptosis. We suggest here a model in which miRNAs may act as "hub" regulators of specific cellular responses, immediately down-regulated so as to stimulate DNA repair mechanisms, followed by up-regulation involved in suppressing apoptosis for cell survival. Taken together, miRNAs may mediate signaling pathways in sequential fashion in response to radiation, and may serve as biodosimetric markers of radiation exposure.	Cluster Analysis;Fibroblasts/ metabolism/ radiation effects;Gene Expression;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Linear Energy Transfer/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Models, Biological;Proteomics;Radiation
MicroRNA: Implications for Alzheimer Disease and other Human CNS Disorders	O. C. Maes, et al.	2009	19881909	Understanding complex diseases such as sporadic Alzheimer disease (AD) has been a major challenge. Unlike the familial forms of AD, the genetic and environmental risks factors identified for sporadic AD are extensive. MicroRNAs are one of the major noncoding RNAs that function as negative regulators to silence or suppress gene expression via translational inhibition or message degradation. Their discovery has evoked great excitement in biomedical research for their promise as potential disease biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Key microRNAs have been identified as essential for a variety of cellular events including cell lineage determination, proliferation, apoptosis, DNA repair, and cytoskeletal organization; most, if not all, acting to fine-tune gene expression at the post-transcriptional level in a host of cellular signaling networks. Dysfunctional microRNA-mediated regulation has been implicated in the pathogenesis of many disease states. Here, the current understanding of the role of miRNAs in the central nervous system is reviewed with emphasis on their impact on the etiopathogenesis of sporadic AD.	Aging;Alzheimer disease;biomarker;genomics.;microRNA;mild cognitive impairment;neurodegeneration
Stepwise up-regulation of microRNA expression levels from replicating to reversible and irreversible growth arrest states in WI-38 human fibroblasts	O. C. Maes, et al.	2009	19475566	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that regulate diverse genetic expression networks through their control of mRNA stability or translation. Their role in aging mechanisms has been proposed in various model systems. In this report, the expression profiling of 462 human miRNAs in the reversible growth arrest state of quiescence, and irreversible states of replicative senescence and hydrogen peroxide-induced premature senescence, are compared to young replicating lung fibroblasts. Greater numbers of up-regulated than down-regulated miRNAs are observed when cells stop proliferating, particularly in premature senescence, somewhat less in replicative senescence, and less still in quiescence. Several altered miRNA expressions are shared by the three growth arrest states, including the up-regulation of miR-34a, -624, -638 and miR-377, and the down-regulation of miR-365 and miR-512-5p. miRNAs up-regulated in both permanent growth arrest states but not in quiescence include let-7g, miR-26a, -136, -144, -195 and miR-200b. In each of the growth arrest states, miR-34a and let-7f have the most robust up-regulation in H(2)O(2)-induced premature senescence, followed by miR-638 and miR-663 in replicative senescence, and finally, miR-331-3p and miR-595 in quiescence. Our comprehensive evaluation of miRNA target correlations with known biomarkers for replicative senescence suggests that miRNAs may repress pathways controlling not only cell cycle traverse and proliferation, but also insulin-like signaling, DNA repair and apoptosis, all of which are cellular functions deficient in senescent human fibroblasts.	Biomarkers/metabolism;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Line;Cell Proliferation;Cell Survival;Fibroblasts/ cytology/ metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Models, Biological;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Reproducibility of Results;Up-Regulation/ genetics;beta-Galactosidase/metabolism
miR-200c is upregulated by oxidative stress and induces endothelial cell apoptosis and senescence via ZEB1 inhibition	A. Magenta, et al.	2011	21527937	We examined the effect of reactive oxygen species (ROS) on MicroRNAs (miRNAs) expression in endothelial cells in vitro, and in mouse skeletal muscle following acute hindlimb ischemia. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) were exposed to 200 muM hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) for 8 to 24 h; miRNAs profiling showed that miR-200c and the co-transcribed miR-141 increased more than eightfold. The other miR-200 gene family members were also induced, albeit to a lower level. Furthermore, miR-200c upregulation was not endothelium restricted, and occurred also on exposure to an oxidative stress-inducing drug: 1,3-bis(2 chloroethyl)-1nitrosourea (BCNU). miR-200c overexpression induced HUVEC growth arrest, apoptosis and senescence; these phenomena were also induced by H(2)O(2) and were partially rescued by miR-200c inhibition. Moreover, miR-200c target ZEB1 messenger RNA and protein were downmodulated by H(2)O(2) and by miR-200c overexpression. ZEB1 knockdown recapitulated miR-200c-induced responses, and expression of a ZEB1 allele non-targeted by miR-200c, prevented miR-200c phenotype. The mechanism of H(2)O(2)-mediated miR-200c upregulation involves p53 and retinoblastoma proteins. Acute hindlimb ischemia enhanced miR-200c in wild-type mice skeletal muscle, whereas in p66(ShcA -/-) mice, which display lower levels of oxidative stress after ischemia, upregulation of miR-200c was markedly inhibited. In conclusion, ROS induce miR-200c and other miR-200 family members; the ensuing downmodulation of ZEB1 has a key role in ROS-induced apoptosis and senescence.	Animals;Apoptosis/drug effects/ genetics;Blotting, Western;Carmustine/pharmacology;Cell Aging/drug effects/ genetics;Cells, Cultured;Endothelial Cells/ cytology/drug effects/ metabolism;Flow Cytometry;Free Radicals/metabolism;Homeodomain Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Humans;Hydrogen Peroxide/pharmacology;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Oxidative Stress/ drug effects;Reactive Oxygen Species/ metabolism;Transcription Factors/genetics/ metabolism;Zinc Finger E-box-Binding Homeobox 1
The Emerging Role of miR-200 Family in Cardiovascular Diseases	A. Magenta, et al.	2017	28450364		aging;cardiovascular diseases;insulin resistance;microRNAs;oxidative stress
Stem cell therapy without the cells	G. Maguire	2013	24567776	As an example of the burgeoning importance of stem cell therapy, this past month the California Institute for Regenerative Medicine (CIRM) has approved $70 million to create a new network of stem cell clinical trial centers. Much work in the last decade has been devoted to developing the use of autologous and allogeneic adult stem cell transplants to treat a number of conditions, including heart attack, dementia, wounds, and immune system-related diseases. The standard model teaches us that adult stem cells exists throughout most of the body and provide a means to regenerate and repair most tissues through replication and differentiation. Although we have often witnessed the medical cart placed in front of the scientific horse in the development of stem cell therapies outside of academic circles, great strides have been made, such as the use of purified stem cells(1) instead of whole bone marrow transplants in cancer patients, where physicians avoid re-injecting the patients with their own cancer cells.(2) We most often think of stem cell therapy acting to regenerate tissue through replication and then differentiation, but recent studies point to the dramatic effects adult stem cells exert in the repair of various tissues through the release of paracrine and autocrine substances, and not simply through differentiation. Indeed, up to 80% of the therapeutic effect of adult stem cells has been shown to be through paracrine mediated actions.(3) That is, the collected types of molecules released by the stem cells, called the secretome, or stem cell released molecules (SRM), number in the 100s, including proteins, microRNA, growth factors, antioxidants, proteasomes, and exosomes, and target a multitude of biological pathways through paracrine actions. The composition of the different molecule types in SRM is state dependent, and varies with cell type and conditions such as age and environment.	Srm;antimicrobial;growth factors;paracrine;stem cells;systems therapeutic;transplants
miR-886-3p levels are elevated in Friedreich ataxia	L. H. Mahishi, et al.	2012	22764244	Friedreich ataxia (FRDA) is the most common inherited ataxia caused primarily by an intronic GAA.TTC triplet repeat expansion in the frataxin (FXN) gene. FXN RNA and protein levels are reduced in patients leading to progressive gait and limb ataxia, sensory loss, reduced tendon reflexes, dysarthria, absent lower limb reflexes, and loss of position and vibration sense. Neurological manifestations ensue from primary loss of dorsal root ganglia neurons and their associated axons ascending centrally in the spinal cord and peripherally in large myelinated nerves. Small noncoding RNAs such as microRNAs have been shown to be dysregulated in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Huntington's disease. Here we report that hsa-miR-886-3p (miR-886-3p) was increased in patient cells as well as peripheral patient blood samples. Selective reduction in miR-886-3p by an anti-miR led to elevation of FXN message and protein levels without associated changes in histone marks at the FXN locus. Nevertheless, derepression of frataxin by a histone deacetylase inhibitor leads to a decrease in miR-886-3p. These results outline involvement of a small RNA, miR-886-3p in FRDA and a novel therapeutic approach to this disease using an anti-miR-886-3p.	Cell Line;Friedreich Ataxia/ genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation/physiology;Histones/metabolism;Humans;Iron-Binding Proteins/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ metabolism;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide/genetics;RNA, Messenger/biosynthesis;Receptor, Angiotensin, Type 1/metabolism;Trinucleotide Repeats/genetics;Up-Regulation/ genetics
Role of EZH2 histone methyltrasferase in melanoma progression and metastasis	F. Mahmoud, et al.	2016	27105109	There is accumulating evidence that the histone methyltransferase enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2), the main component of the polycomb-repressive complex 2 (PRC2), is involved in melanoma progression and metastasis. Novel drugs that target and reverse such epigenetic changes may find a way into the management of patients with advanced melanoma. We provide a comprehensive up-to-date review of the role and biology of EZH2 on gene transcription, senescence/apoptosis, melanoma microenvironment, melanocyte stem cells, the immune system, and micro RNA. Furthermore, we discuss EZH2 inhibitors as potential anti-cancer therapy.	Chromatin;Ezh2;H3K27 trimethylation;epigenetic changes;histone;melanoma;polycomb-repressive complex
Plasma miR-122 and miR-200 family are prognostic markers in colorectal cancer	M. Maierthaler, et al.	2017	27632639	Circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) have been proposed as minimally invasive prognostic markers for various types of cancers, including colorectal cancer (CRC), the third most diagnosed cancer worldwide. We aimed to evaluate the levels of circulating miRNAs that might serve as markers for CRC prognosis and survival. We included plasma samples of 543 CRC patients with stage I-IV disease from a population-based study carried out in Germany. After comprehensive evaluation of current literature, 95 miRNAs were selected and measured with Custom TaqMan(R) Array MicroRNA Cards. Plasma samples of non-metastatic and metastatic colon cancer patients, each group consisting of ten patients with 'good' and ten patients with 'bad' prognosis were screened. Identified candidate miRNAs were further validated by RT-qPCR in the whole study cohort. The association of the miRNA levels with patients' survival and the prognostic subtypes was analyzed with uni- and multivariate logistic regression and Cox proportional hazards regression models. Increased miR-122 levels were associated with a 'bad' prognostic subtype in metastatic CRC (Odds ratio: 1.563, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.038-2.347) and a shorter relapse-free survival and overall survival for non-metastatic (Hazard ratio (HR): 1.370, 95% CI: 1.028-1.825; HR: 1.353, 95% CI: 1.002-1.828) and metastatic (HR: 1.264, 95% CI: 1.050-1.520; HR: 1.292, 95% CI: 1.078-1.548) CRC patients. Additionally, several members of the miR-200 family showed associations with patients' prognosis and correlations to clinicopathological characteristics. The here identified miRNA markers, miR-122 and the miR-200 family members, could be of use in the development of a multi-marker blood test for CRC prognosis.	Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Biomarkers, Tumor/ genetics;Case-Control Studies;Colorectal Neoplasms/ genetics/ pathology;Female;Germany;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood;Middle Aged;Multigene Family;Neoplasm Metastasis;Prognosis;Survival Analysis;Crc;circulating miRNA;miR-122;miR-200 family
Disease onset and aging in the world of circular RNAs	K. Maiese	2016	27642518	Circular ribonucleic acids (circRNAs) are non-coding RNAs of approximately 100 nucleotides in length with thousands of members in mammalian cells. The presence of circRNAs is believed to be even greater than that of messenger RNAs. Identification of circRNAs occurred approximately 37 years ago with the subsequent demonstration that covalent bonds are necessary for the unique circular structure of these ribonucleic acids. However, present understanding of the complex biological role of circRNAs remains limited and requires further elucidation. CircRNAs may impact aging, multiple disorders, function as biomarkers, and are able to regulate gene expression by acting as effective microRNA (miRNA) sponges. New work suggests that circRNAs are vital for the modulation of cellular senescence and programmed cell death pathways such as apoptosis. These non-coding RNAs can control cell cycle progression, cellular proliferation, and cellular survival impacting disorders linked to aging, cardiovascular disease, and atherosclerosis through pathways that involve cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2), cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1 (p21), and mammalian forkhead transcription factors. In addition, circRNAs can oversee cellular metabolism and disorders such as diabetes mellitus through the regulation of insulin signaling as well as limit tumor progression through Wnt signaling and beta-catenin pathways. Further understanding of the biology of circRNAs offers great promise for the targeting of novel strategies against a wide spectrum of disease entities.	FoxO;Wnt signaling;aging;apoptosis;autophagy;biomarkers;cancer;cardiovascular disease;cell cycle;circular RNA;cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2);cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1 (p21);diabetes mellitus;endothelial cells;forkhead transcription factors;metabolism;microRNA;p21;programmed cell death;reactive oxygen species;senescence;stem cells;transcription factors;vascular smooth muscle cells;beta-catenin
Harnessing the Power of SIRT1 and Non-coding RNAs in Vascular Disease	K. Maiese	2017	27897112	Noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) contribute to a significant amount of disability and death in the world. Of these disorders, vascular disease is ranked high, falls within the five leading causes of death, and impacts multiple other disease entities such as those of the cardiac system, nervous system, and metabolic disease. Targeting the silent mating type information regulation 2 homolog 1 (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) (SIRT1) pathway and the modulation of micro ribonucleic acids (miRNAs) may hold great promise for the development of novel strategies for the treatment of vascular disease since each of these pathways are highly relevant to cardiac and nervous system disorders as well as to metabolic dysfunction. SIRT1 is vital in determining the course of stem cell development and the survival, metabolism, and life span of differentiated cells that are overseen by both autophagy and apoptosis. SIRT1 interfaces with a number of pathways that involve forkhead transcription factors, mechanistic of rapamycin (mTOR), AMP activated protein kinase (AMPK) and Wnt1 inducible signaling pathway protein 1 (WISP1) such that the level of activity of SIRT1 can become a critical determinant for biological and clinical outcomes. The essential fine control of SIRT1 is directly tied to the world of non-coding RNAs that ultimately oversee SIRT1 activity to either extend or end cellular survival. Future studies that can further elucidate the crosstalk between SIRT1 and non-coding RNAs should serve well our ability to harness the power of SIRT1 and non-coding RNAs for the treatment of vascular disorders.	Aging;Ccn4;FoxO;Sirt1;Wisp1;Wnt signaling;apoptosis;autophagy;biomarker;cardiovascular disease;cell cycle;circular RNA;cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2);cyclindependent kinase inhibitor 1 (p21);diabetes mellitus;endothelial cells;forkhead transcription factors;metabolism;microRNA;non-coding RNA;oxidative stress;programmed cell death;senescence;stem cells;transcription factors
Microdissection and transcriptional profiling: a window into the pathobiology of preclinical prion disease	A. Majer and S. A. Booth	2014	24406429	Prion diseases share common features on a sub-cellular level with many neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer disease; the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease world-wide. The most obvious similarity is the accumulation of misfolded forms of the host proteins which forms aggregates in the brains of patients. Remarkably, one of the earliest pathological changes detected in degenerating brain tissue, well before clinical symptoms are observed, is synaptic dysfunction and loss. This pathology was recently shown to be reversible in early stages of mouse prion disease suggesting that synaptic regeneration and reestablishment of neuronal function is possible. Determination of the molecular events that underlie synapse degeneration and how this eventually results in neuronal loss is therefore a research priority that may contribute to the search for new therapeutic interventions for neurodegenerative disorders. Functional genomic studies using unbiased whole genome expression analyses represent one method that can provide insights into these perplexing processes. However, transcriptional profiles from brain tissues are representative of a heterogeneous mixture of cell types that effectively mask the expression of low abundance transcripts, or molecular changes that occur only in a small population of affected neurons. One method that was recently applied to address these challenges was laser capture microdissection which was used to effectively isolate the CA1 neuronal rich region of the hippocampus prior to RNA extraction. Profiling of both mRNAs and microRNAs revealed previously unidentified neuronal-specific genes and expression signatures that are relevant to understanding the pathophysiological processes involved in preclinical stages of prion disease. In this review we will highlight these molecular signatures and discuss their implications with respect to prion-induced neurodegeneration.	Animals;Gene Expression Profiling;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics;Microdissection;Neurons/metabolism/pathology;Prion Diseases/genetics/ pathology;Transcription, Genetic
Effects of supplementation with nondigestible carbohydrates on fecal calprotectin and on epigenetic regulation of SFRP1 expression in the large-bowel mucosa of healthy individuals	F. C. Malcomson, et al.	2017	28077379	BACKGROUND: Hyperactive Wnt signaling is frequently observed in colorectal cancer. Higher intakes of dietary fiber [nondigestible carbohydrates (NDCs)] and the fermentation product butyrate are protective against colorectal cancer and may exert their preventative effects via modulation of the Wnt pathway. OBJECTIVES: We investigated the effects of supplementing healthy individuals with 2 NDCs [resistant starch (RS) and polydextrose] on fecal calprotectin concentrations and Wnt pathway-related gene expression. In addition, we determined whether effects on secreted frizzled-related protein 1 (SFRP1) expression are mediated via the epigenetic mechanisms DNA methylation and microRNA expression. DESIGN: In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial (the Dietary Intervention, Stem cells and Colorectal Cancer (DISC) Study), 75 healthy participants were supplemented with RS and/or polydextrose or placebo for 50 d in a 2 x 2 factorial design. Pre- and postintervention stool samples and rectal mucosal biopsies were collected and used to quantify calprotectin and expression of 12 Wnt-related genes, respectively. The expression of 10 microRNAs predicted to target SFRP1 was also quantified by quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, and DNA methylation was quantified at 7 CpG sites within the SFRP1 promoter region by pyrosequencing. RESULTS: NDC supplementation did not affect fecal calprotectin concentration. SFRP1 mRNA expression was reduced by both RS (P = 0.005) and polydextrose (P = 0.053). RS and polydextrose did not affect SFRP1 methylation or alter the expression of 10 microRNAs predicted to target SFRP1. There were no significant interactions between RS and polydextrose. CONCLUSIONS: RS and polydextrose supplementation did not affect fecal calprotectin concentrations. Downregulation of SFRP1 with RS and polydextrose could result in increased Wnt pathway activity. However, effects on Wnt pathway activity and downstream functional effects in the healthy large-bowel mucosa remain to be investigated. The DISC Study was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT01214681.	Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;DNA Methylation;Dietary Carbohydrates/ administration & dosage/pharmacokinetics;Double-Blind Method;Down-Regulation;Epigenesis, Genetic;Feces/ chemistry;Female;Glucans/chemistry;Humans;Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Intestinal Mucosa/ metabolism;Leukocyte L1 Antigen Complex/ chemistry;Male;Membrane Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;Promoter Regions, Genetic;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Starch/chemistry;Wnt Signaling Pathway;Young Adult;Wnt signaling;calprotectin;colorectal cancer;epigenetics;nondigestible carbohydrates
Non-digestible carbohydrates supplementation increases miR-32 expression in the healthy human colorectal epithelium: A randomized controlled trial	F. C. Malcomson, et al.	2017	28418082	Colorectal cancer (CRC) risk is modulated by diet and there is convincing evidence of reduced risk with higher non-digestible carbohydrates (NDCs) consumption. Resistant starch (RS), a NDC, positively modulates the expression of oncogenic microRNAs, suggesting that this could be a mechanism through which NDCs protect against CRC. The present study aimed to investigate the effects of supplementation with two NDCs, RS, and polydextrose (PD), on microRNA expression in the macroscopically-normal human rectal epithelium using samples from the DISC Study, a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled dietary intervention. We screened 1008 miRNAs in pooled post-intervention rectal mucosal samples from participants allocated to the double placebo group and those supplemented with both RS and PD. A total of 111 miRNAs were up- or down-regulated by at least twofold in the RS + PD group compared with the control group. From these, eight were selected for quantification in individual participant samples by qPCR, and fold-change direction was consistent with the array for seven miRNAs. The inconsistency for miR-133b and the lower fold-change values observed for the seven miRNAs is probably because qPCR of individual participant samples is a more robust and sensitive method of quantification than the array. miR-32 expression was increased by approximately threefold (P = 0.033) in the rectal mucosa of participants supplemented with RS + PD compared with placebo. miR-32 is involved in the regulation of processes such as cell proliferation that are dysregulated in CRC. Furthermore, miR-32 may affect non-canonical NF-kappaB signaling via regulation of TRAF3 expression and consequently NIK stabilization.	colorectal cancer;microRNA;non-digestible carbohydrates
A complex crosstalk between polymorphic microRNA target sites and AD prognosis	B. Mallick and Z. Ghosh	2011	21659796	Genetic variation associated with different diseases interferes with microRNA-mediated regulation by creating, destroying, or modifying microRNA (miRNA) binding sites. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder that affects cognitive function in the elderly and has associated genetic variation within the diseased genome. We investigated the extent to which these SNPs interfere with miRNA gene regulation and affect AD susceptibility. We designed a sophisticated computational pipeline to predict the potential miRNA-target SNP interactions followed by a rigorous bioinformatic analysis to establish the effect of "gain-of-function" or "loss-of-function" of the miRNA mediated regulatory network on the etiology of the disease. The significant interactions include target SNPs present in seven genes-related to AD prognosis with the miRNAs- miR-214, -23a & -23b, -486-3p, -30e*, -143, -128, -27a &-27b, -324-5p and -422a. Further our study provides novel insight on the contribution of synonymous mutations towards AD pathogenesis. The putative miRNA::target SNP interactions suggest that the dysregulated miRNA network contributes to the aberrant gene expression in AD. Our results show that miRNA-target variability is a ubiquitous phenomenon in the adult human brain, which may influence gene expression in physiological and pathological conditions. The experimental assay of these miRNA::target SNP predictions will be the next step towards determining the functional effects of these SNPs on miRNA targets and their association with disease susceptibility. Overall, this work may serve as the cornerstones for understanding the variables of the molecular pathways relevant to the development of the disease and designing therapeutic miRNA regimens to modify diseased gene expression profiles in AD patients.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/mortality;Binding Sites/genetics;Brain/cytology/ metabolism/pathology;Computational Biology;Gene Expression Regulation;Genetic Variation;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Prognosis;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism
MicroRNA-152 and -181a participate in human dermal fibroblasts senescence acting on cell adhesion and remodeling of the extra-cellular matrix	M. Mancini, et al.	2012	23238588	Ageing of human skin is associated with phenotypic changes in the cutaneous cells; the major functional markers of ageing occur as consequences of dermal and epidermal cell senescence and of structural and compositional remodeling of normally long-lived dermal extracellular matrix proteins. Understanding the contribution of the dermal cells in skin ageing is a key question, since this tissue is particularly important for skin integrity and its properties can affect the epidermis. Several microRNAs have been shown to be involved in the regulation of pathways involved in cellular senescence and exerted important effects on tissues ageing. In this study, we demonstrate that the expression of miR-152 and miR-181a increased during the human dermal fibroblasts senescence and that their overexpression, is sufficient to induce cellular senescence in early-passage cells. The increase of these miRNAs during cells senescence was accompanied by a decrease in integrin alpha5 and collagen XVI expression at mRNA and/or protein levels resulting in reduced cellular adhesion and suggesting extracellular matrix remodeling. These findings indicate that changes in miRNAs expression, by modulating the levels of adhesion proteins and extra-cellular matrix components, such as integrin alpha5 and collagen XVI, could contribute to the compositional remodelling of the dermis and epidermis occurring during skin aging.	Blotting, Western;Cell Adhesion/ physiology;Cell Aging/ physiology;Cells, Cultured;Collagen/metabolism;Extracellular Matrix;Fibroblasts/cytology/metabolism;Humans;Integrin alphaV/metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Skin/cytology;Transfection
miR-142-3p Is a Key Regulator of IL-1beta-Dependent Synaptopathy in Neuroinflammation	G. Mandolesi, et al.	2017	28100738	MicroRNAs (miRNA) play an important role in post-transcriptional gene regulation of several physiological and pathological processes. In multiple sclerosis (MS), a chronic inflammatory and degenerative disease of the CNS, and in its mouse model, the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), miRNA dysregulation has been mainly related to immune system dysfunction and white matter (WM) pathology. However, little is known about their role in gray matter pathology. Here, we explored miRNA involvement in the inflammation-driven alterations of synaptic structure and function, collectively known as synaptopathy, a neuropathological process contributing to excitotoxic neurodegeneration in MS/EAE. Particularly, we observed that miR-142-3p is increased in the CSF of patients with active MS and in EAE brains. We propose miR-142-3p as a molecular mediator of the IL-1beta-dependent downregulation of the glial glutamate-aspartate transporter (GLAST), which causes an enhancement of the glutamatergic transmission in the EAE cerebellum. The synaptic abnormalities mediated by IL-1beta and the clinical and neuropathological manifestations of EAE disappeared in miR-142 knock-out mice. Furthermore, we observed that in vivo miR-142-3p inhibition, either by a preventive and local treatment or by a therapeutic and systemic strategy, abolished IL-1beta- and GLAST-dependent synaptopathy in EAE wild-type mice. Consistently, miR-142-3p was responsible for the glutamatergic synaptic alterations caused by CSF of patients with MS, and CSF levels of miR-142-3p correlated with prospective MS disease progression. Our findings highlight miR-142-3p as key molecular player in IL-1beta-mediated synaptic dysfunction, possibly leading to excitotoxic damage in both EAE and MS diseases. Inhibition of miR-142-3p could be neuroprotective in MS. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: Current studies suggest the role of glutamate excitotoxicity in the development and progression of multiple sclerosis (MS) and of its mouse model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). The molecular mechanisms linking inflammation and synaptic alterations in MS/EAE are still unknown. Here, we identified miR-142-3p as a determinant molecular actor in inflammation-dependent synaptopathy typical of both MS and EAE. miR-142-3p was upregulated in the CSF of MS patients and in EAE cerebellum. Inhibition of miR-142-3p, locally in EAE brain and in a MS chimeric ex vivo model, recovered glutamatergic synaptic enhancement typical of EAE/MS. We proved that miR-142-3p promoted the IL-1beta-dependent glutamate dysfunction by targeting glutamate-aspartate transporter (GLAST), a crucial glial transporter involved in glutamate homeostasis. Finally, we suggest miR-142-3p as a negative prognostic factor in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis.	Csf;experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis;glial glutamate transporter;glutamate excitotoxicity;microRNA;multiple sclerosis
Identification of microRNAs 758 and 33b as potential modulators of ABCA1 expression in human atherosclerotic plaques	C. Mandolini, et al.	2015	25445880	BACKGROUND AND AIM: Adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-binding cassette (ABC) transporters A1 and G1 are the main transporters involved in macrophage cholesterol efflux. The understanding of the molecular mechanism(s) of their regulation in atherosclerosis is crucial for potential therapeutic approaches. Preclinical studies support a role for microRNAs in the posttranscriptional regulation of these transporters; however, no evidence is still available on human atherosclerosis. Thus, the aim of this study was to investigate the modulation of the ABCA1 and ABCG1 pathway in human atherosclerotic plaques and microRNA involvement in its modulation. METHODS AND RESULTS: Thirty-one human atherosclerotic plaques were obtained from patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy for high-grade (>70%) vessel stenosis, and divided into normocholesterolemic (n = 15) and hypercholesterolemic groups (n = 16) according to the presence/absence of hypercholesterolemia. Both ABCA1 and ABCG1 messenger RNAs (mRNAs) were significantly upregulated in carotid plaques from hypercholesterolemic patients as assessed by real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Despite this result, no difference was found at the protein levels analyzed by Western blot, thus suggesting a strong posttranscriptional modulation. MicroRNA microarray and subsequent validation by RT-PCR showed a significant upregulation of ABCA1-linked miR-758 and miR-33b in plaques from hypercholesterolemic patients. CONCLUSION: We provide evidence of a strong posttranscriptional regulation of ABCA1 and ABCG1 expression in human atherosclerotic plaques from hypercholesterolemic patients. This effect is potentially due to the concomitant increase of miR-33b and miR-758, two well-established regulators of ABCA1 and ABCG1 expression. The identification of miR-33b and miR-758 as putative key regulators of ABCA1 protein expression within human atherosclerotic plaques provides further data for the realization of new anti-atherosclerotic drugs with specific targets based on anti-miRNA technologies.	ATP Binding Cassette Transporter 1/genetics/ metabolism;ATP Binding Cassette Transporter, Sub-Family G, Member 1;ATP-Binding Cassette Transporters/genetics/metabolism;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Biological Transport;Cholesterol, HDL/blood;Cholesterol, LDL/blood;Female;Humans;Hypercholesterolemia/blood/genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Plaque, Atherosclerotic/ genetics/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Up-Regulation;ABC transporter;Atherosclerosis;Carotid endarterectomy;Cholesterol efflux;MicroRNA
miR-449a enhances radiosensitivity through modulating pRb/E2F1 in prostate cancer cells	A. Mao, et al.	2016	26520443	miR-449a, a novel tumor suppressor, is deregulated in various malignancies, including prostate cancer. Overexpression of miR-449a induces cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, and senescence, but its role in response to ionizing radiation and underlying molecular mechanism are still unknown. Here, we report that miR-449a enhances radiation-induced G2/M phase arrest and apoptosis through modulating pRb/E2F1 and sensitizes prostate cancer cells to X-ray radiation. In wild-type Rb PC-3 cells, overexpression of miR-449a enhances radiation-induced G2/M arrest and apoptosis and promotes the sensitivity to X-ray radiation. While mutant Rb DU-145 cells are resistant to the X-ray radiation despite in the presence of miR-449a. The cell cycle distribution of DU-145 cells is not significantly altered by miR-449a in the response to ionizing radiation. Furthermore, elevated miR-449a downregulates cell cycle regulator CDC25A and oncogene HDAC1. By targeting genes involved in controlling pRb/E2F1 activity, miR-449a regulates cell cycle progression and apoptosis and consequently enhances the radiosensitivity of PC-3 cells. Thus, miR-449a, as a miRNA component of the Rb pathway, promotes the radiosensitivity of PC-3 cells through regulating pRb/E2F1.	Apoptosis/radiation effects;Cell Cycle Checkpoints/radiation effects;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation/radiation effects;E2F1 Transcription Factor/biosynthesis/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/radiation effects;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;Prostate/radiation effects;Prostatic Neoplasms/genetics/pathology/ radiotherapy;Radiation Tolerance/ genetics;Retinoblastoma Protein/biosynthesis/ genetics;Signal Transduction/radiation effects;X-Rays;Apoptosis;G2/M arrest;Prostate cancer;Radiosensitivity;miR-449a;pRb/E2F1
Alzheimer's Disease and ncRNAs	R. Maoz, et al.	2017	28523555	Alzheimer's disease is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder affecting a significant portion of the world's rapidly growing aging population. In spite of its prevalence, the etiology of the disease is still poorly understood, and effective therapy is all but unavailable. Over the past decade, noncoding RNA, including microRNA (miRNA), has emerged as a major class of regulatory molecules involved in virtually all physiological and disease states. The specificity provided by miRNA sequence complementarity, together with the ability of these molecules to regulate complex networks of genes, has made them exciting novel targets for therapeutic agents. In this chapter, we review recent progress on understanding the role of noncoding RNA in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The majority of available work has focused on miRNA, and we review the many studies implicating specific miRNAs in the development of the disease. More recently, several studies have tied other RNA classes to the disorder, including long noncoding RNA, circular RNA, and Y RNAs, and we review this fascinating field as well. Finally, we explore the potential promise of these findings for future therapeutic applications.	Alzheimer's disease;Amyloid beta;Lipids;Long noncoding RNA;MicroRNA;Tau
MicroRNA profiling in human diploid fibroblasts uncovers miR-519 role in replicative senescence	B. S. Marasa, et al.	2010	20606251	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNAs that regulate diverse biological processes by controlling the pattern of expressed proteins. In mammalian cells, miRNAs partially complement their target sequences leading to mRNA degradation and/or decreased mRNA translation. Here, we have analyzed transcriptome-wide changes in miRNAs in senescent relative to early-passage WI-38 human diploid fibroblasts (HDFs). Among the miRNAs downregulated with senescence were members of the let-7 family, while upregulated miRNAs included miR-1204, miR-663 and miR-519. miR-519 was recently found to reduce tumor growth at least in part by lowering the abundance of the RNA-binding protein HuR. Overexpression of miR-519a in either WI-38 or human cervical carcinoma HeLa cells triggered senescence, as measured by monitoring beta-galactosidase activity and other senescence markers. These data suggest that miR-519 can suppress tumor growth by triggering senescence and that miR-519 elicits these actions by repressing HuR expression.	Blotting, Western;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Line;Diploidy;Fibroblasts/ metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;HeLa Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction
Increased MKK4 abundance with replicative senescence is linked to the joint reduction of multiple microRNAs	B. S. Marasa, et al.	2009	19861690	MKK4 (mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 4) is a pivotal upstream activator of c-Jun N-terminal kinase and p38. Here, we report that the abundance of MKK4 increases in senescent human diploid fibroblasts through enhanced translation. We identified four microRNAs (miR-15b, miR-24, miR-25, and miR-141) that target the MKK4 messenger RNA (mRNA); the abundance of these microRNAs decreased during replicative senescence. Individually modulating the amount of each microRNA did not modify MKK4 abundance, but their concomitant overexpression decreased and their joint reduction increased MKK4 abundance. Reporter analyses indicated that these microRNAs acted through the MKK4 5' and 3' untranslated regions. Elevated MKK4 abundance inhibited cell proliferation and increased the phosphorylation and activity of p38 and PRAK (p38-regulated/activated protein kinase). Thus, multiple microRNAs acting on a single target, the MKK4 mRNA, collectively influence MKK4 abundance during replicative senescence.	3' Untranslated Regions;Base Sequence;Cell Aging;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;DNA Primers;Humans;Immunohistochemistry;MAP Kinase Kinase 4/genetics/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Protein Biosynthesis;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction
Bone microRNAs and aging	J. Marc, et al.	2017	28164757	The decline of tissue function in ageing is a consequence of many changes in the gene expression and other extrinsic factors. The molecular mechanisms underlying these changes are heavily investigated with focus on regulation of time-lapse gene expression. microRNAs, short non-coding RNA molecules are among the major regulators of gene expression. microRNAs have been shown to control ageing-related mechanisms and several evidence suggest age-related changes in microRNA transcriptome. However, the source regulator of time-lapse gene expression control still remains unknown. Here we reviewed microRNA molecules related to the ageing of bones and studies that investigated age-related bone tissue gene expression. We identified 41 microRNAs molecules from the literature that correlate with bone mineral density or fractures and one recent study demonstrated how a combination of several microRNAs can be used for better prediction of the fractures in osteoporotic patients. The personalised diagnostic algorithms in the future should be therefore based on the combination of multiple biomarkers. Until now little is known about the regulatory mechanisms of microRNA expression and genes in agening. We propose a link between telomere length and gene expression profiles, however this now needs to be further investigated.	Age-related Musco-skeletal Diseases;Epigetic Biomarkers;Gene Expression;Osteoporosis;Personalised Diagnostics;Telomere
Autophagy is modulated in human neuroblastoma cells through direct exposition to low frequency electromagnetic fields	N. Marchesi, et al.	2014	24676932	In neurogenerative diseases, comprising Alzheimer's (AD), functional alteration in autophagy is considered one of the pathological hallmarks and a promising therapeutic target. Epidemiological investigations on the possible causes undergoing these diseases have suggested that electromagnetic fields (EMF) exposition can contribute to their etiology. On the other hand, EMF have therapeutic implications in reactivating neuronal functionality. To partly clarify this dualism, the effect of low-frequency EMF (LF-EMF) on the modulation of autophagy was investigated in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, which were also subsequently exposed to Abeta peptides, key players in AD. The results primarily point that LF-EMF induce a significant reduction of microRNA 30a (miR-30a) expression with a concomitant increase of Beclin1 transcript (BECN1) and its corresponding protein. Furthermore, LF-EMF counteract the induced miR-30a up-regulation in the same cells transfected with miR-30a mimic precursor molecules and, on the other side, rescue Beclin1 expression after BECN1 siRNA treatment. The expression of autophagy-related markers (ATG7 and LC3B-II) as well as the dynamics of autophagosome formation were also visualized after LF-EMF exposition. Finally, different protocols of repeated LF-EMF treatments were assayed to contrast the effects of Abeta peptides in vitro administration. Overall, this research demonstrates, for the first time, that specific LF-EMF treatments can modulate in vitro the expression of a microRNA sequence, which in turn affects autophagy via Beclin1 expression. Taking into account the pivotal role of autophagy in the clearance of protein aggregates within the cells, our results indicate a potential cytoprotective effect exerted by LF-EMF in neurodegenerative diseases such as AD. J. Cell. Physiol. 229: 1776-1786, 2014. (c) 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.	Amyloid beta-Peptides/toxicity;Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Autophagy/drug effects/genetics;Beclin-1;Biomarkers/metabolism;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Survival/drug effects/genetics;Electromagnetic Fields;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/drug effects;Green Fluorescent Proteins/metabolism;Humans;Membrane Proteins/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Microtubule-Associated Proteins/metabolism;Neuroblastoma/genetics/ pathology/ultrastructure
Up-regulation of neural and cell cycle-related microRNAs in brain of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis mice at late disease stage	S. Marcuzzo, et al.	2015	25626686	BACKGROUND: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease characterized by selective motor neuron degeneration in motor cortex, brainstem and spinal cord. microRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that bind complementary target sequences and modulate gene expression; they are key molecules for establishing a neuronal phenotype, and in neurodegeneration. Here we investigated neural miR-9, miR-124a, miR-125b, miR-219, miR-134, and cell cycle-related miR-19a and -19b, in G93A-SOD1 mouse brain in pre-symptomatic and late stage disease. RESULTS: Expression of miR-9, miR-124a, miR-19a and -19b was significantly increased in G93A-SOD1 whole brain at late stage disease compared to B6.SJL and Wt-SOD1 control brains. These miRNAs were then analyzed in manually dissected SVZ, hippocampus, primary motor cortex and brainstem motor nuclei in 18-week-old ALS mice compared to same age controls. In SVZ and hippocampus miR-124a was up-regulated, miR-219 was down-regulated, and numbers of neural stem progenitor cells (NSPCs) were significantly increased. In G93A-SOD1 brainstem motor nuclei and primary motor cortex, miR-9 and miR-124a were significantly up-regulated, miR-125b expression was also increased. miR-19a and -19b were up-regulated in primary motor cortex and hippocampus, respectively. Expression analysis of predicted miRNA targets identified miRNA/target gene pairs differentially expressed in G93A-SOD1 brain regions compared to controls. CONCLUSIONS: Hierarchical clustering analysis, identifying two clusters of miRNA/target genes, one characterizing brainstem motor nuclei and primary motor cortex, the other hippocampus and SVZ, suggests that altered expression of neural and cell cycle-related miRNAs in these brain regions might contribute to ALS pathogenesis in G93A-SOD1 mice. Re-establishing their expression to normal levels could be a new therapeutic approach to ALS.	Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/ genetics/ pathology;Animals;Brain/ metabolism;Cell Count;Cell Cycle;Cell Differentiation;Disease Progression;Hippocampus/pathology;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Neural Stem Cells/metabolism;Neuroglia/metabolism;Neurons/ metabolism/pathology;Organ Specificity/genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Superoxide Dismutase/genetics;Up-Regulation/ genetics
Altered miRNA expression is associated with neuronal fate in G93A-SOD1 ependymal stem progenitor cells	S. Marcuzzo, et al.	2014	24365539	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive motoneuron loss in the CNS. In G93A-SOD1 mice, motoneuron degeneration is associated with proliferative restorative attempts of ependymal stem progenitor cells (epSPCs), usually quiescent in the spinal cord. The aims of the study were to demonstrate that epSPCs isolated from the spinal cord of G93A-SOD1 mice express neurogenic potential in vitro, and thus gain a better understanding of epSPC neural differentiation properties. For this purpose, we compared the ability of epSPCs from asymptomatic and symptomatic G93A-SOD1 and WT SOD1 transgenic mice to proliferate and differentiate into neural cells. Compared to control cells, G93A-SOD1 epSPCs differentiated more into neurons than into astrocytes, whereas oligodendrocyte proportions were similar in the two populations. G93A-SOD1 neurons were small and astrocytes had an activated phenotype. Evaluation of microRNAs, specific for neural cell fate and cell-cycle regulation, in G93A-SOD1 epSPCs showed that miR-9, miR-124a, miR-19a and miR-19b were differentially expressed. Expression analysis of the predicted miRNA targets allowed identification of a functional network in which Hes1, Pten, Socs1, and Stat3 genes were important for controlling epSPC fate. Our findings demonstrate that G93A-SOD1 epSPCs are a source of multipotent cells that have neurogenic potential in vitro, and might be a useful tool to investigate the mechanisms of neural differentiation in relation to miRNA expression whose modulation might constitute new targeted therapeutic approaches to ALS.	Age Factors;Animals;Cell Differentiation/genetics;Cell Proliferation;Ependyma/ cytology;Gene Expression Regulation/genetics/immunology;Gene Regulatory Networks/genetics;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/metabolism;Neurons/ metabolism;O Antigens/metabolism;Octamer Transcription Factor-3/metabolism;Receptors, N-Methyl-D-Aspartate/metabolism;SOXB1 Transcription Factors/metabolism;Spinal Cord/anatomy & histology;Stem Cells/metabolism/ physiology;Superoxide Dismutase/genetics/ metabolism;Tubulin/metabolism;Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis;Ependymal stem progenitor cell differentiation;Ependymal stem progenitor cells;Functional network;G93A-SOD1 mouse;MicroRNAs
Circulating MicroRNA Are Predictive of Aging and Acute Adaptive Response to Resistance Exercise in Men	L. M. Margolis, et al.	2016	27927764	Circulating microRNA (c-miRNA) have the potential to function as novel noninvasive markers of the underlying physiological state of skeletal muscle. This investigation sought to determine the influence of aging on c-miRNA expression at rest and following resistance exercise in male volunteers (Young: n = 9; Older: n = 9). Primary findings were that fasting c-miRNA expression profiles were significantly predictive of aging, with miR-19b-3p, miR-206, and miR-486 distinguishing between age groups. Following resistance exercise, principal component analysis revealed a divergent response in expression of 10 c-miRNA, where expression profiles were upregulated in younger and downregulated in older participants. Using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis to test c-miRNA-to-mRNA interactions in skeletal muscle, it was found that response of c-miRNA to exercise was indicative of an anabolic response in younger but not older participants. These findings were corroborated with a positive association observed with the phosphorylation status of p-AktSer473 and p-S6K1Thr389 and expression of miR-19a-3p, miR-19b-3p, miR-20a-5p, miR-26b-5p, miR-143-3p, and miR-195-5p. These important findings provide compelling evidence that dysregulation of c-miRNA expression with aging may not only serve as a predictive marker, but also reflect underlying molecular mechanisms resulting in age-associated declines in skeletal muscle mass, increased fat mass, and "anabolic resistance."	Anabolic resistance;miR-19b-3p;miR-206;miR-486
Prolonged Calorie Restriction Downregulates Skeletal Muscle mTORC1 Signaling Independent of Dietary Protein Intake and Associated microRNA Expression	L. M. Margolis, et al.	2016	27761114	Short-term (5-10 days) calorie restriction (CR) downregulates muscle protein synthesis, with consumption of a high protein-based diet attenuating this decline. Benefit of increase protein intake is believed to be due to maintenance of amino acid-mediated anabolic signaling through the mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), however, there is limited evidence to support this contention. The purpose of this investigation was to determine the effects of prolonged CR and high protein diets on skeletal muscle mTORC1 signaling and expression of associated microRNA (miR). Twelve-week old male Sprague Dawley rats consumed ad libitum (AL) or calorie restricted (CR; 40%) adequate (10%, AIN-93M) or high (32%) protein milk-based diets for 16 weeks. Body composition was determined using dual energy X-ray absorptiometry and muscle protein content was calculated from muscle homogenate protein concentrations expressed relative to fat-free mass to estimate protein content. Western blot and RT-qPCR were used to determine mTORC1 signaling and mRNA and miR expression in fasted mixed gastrocnemius. Independent of dietary protein intake, muscle protein content was 38% lower (P < 0.05) in CR compared to AL. Phosphorylation and total Akt, mTOR, rpS6, and p70S6K were lower (P < 0.05) in CR vs. AL, and total rpS6 was associated with muscle protein content (r = 0.64, r2 = 0.36). Skeletal muscle miR expression was not altered by either energy or protein intake. This study provides evidence that chronic CR attenuates muscle protein content by downregulating mTORC1 signaling. This response is independent of skeletal muscle miR and dietary protein.	energy deficit;miR-100;miR-99;muscle protein content;rpS6
Telomere dynamics during aging in polygenic left ventricular hypertrophy	F. Z. Marques, et al.	2016	26508703	Short telomeres are associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease. Here we studied cardiomyocyte telomere length at key ages during the ontogeny of cardiac hypertrophy and failure in the hypertrophic heart rat (HHR) and compared these with the normal heart rat (NHR) control strain. Key ages corresponded with the pathophysiological sequence beginning with fewer cardiomyocytes (2 days), leading to left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) (13 wk) and subsequently progression to heart failure (38 wk). We measured telomere length, tissue activity of telomerase, mRNA levels of telomerase reverse transcriptase (Tert) and telomerase RNA component (Terc), and expression of the telomeric regulator microRNA miR-34a. Cardiac telomere length was longer in the HHR compared with the control strain at 2 days and 38 wk, but shorter at 13 wk. Neonatal HHR had higher cardiac telomerase activity and expression of Tert and miR-34a. Telomerase activity was not different at 13 or 38 wk. Tert mRNA and Terc RNA were overexpressed at 38 wk, while miR-34a was overexpressed at 13 wk but downregulated at 38 wk. Circulating leukocytes were strongly correlated with cardiac telomere length in the HHR only. The longer neonatal telomeres in HHR are likely to reflect fewer fetal and early postnatal cardiomyocyte cell divisions and explain the reduced total cardiomyocyte complement that predisposes to later hypertrophy and failure. Although shorter telomeres were a feature of cardiac hypertrophy at 13 wk, they were not present at the progression to heart failure at 38 wk.	Aging/ pathology;Animals;Cardiomegaly/complications/genetics;DNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Heart Ventricles/pathology;Hypertrophy, Left Ventricular/complications/ genetics;Leukocytes/metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Multifactorial Inheritance/ genetics;Organ Size;Rats, Inbred F344;Regression Analysis;Telomerase/metabolism;Telomere/ metabolism;Terc;Tert;cardiac hypertrophy;development;left ventricular hypertrophy;miRNA;telomerase;telomeres
A myriad of miRNA variants in control and Huntington's disease brain regions detected by massively parallel sequencing	E. Marti, et al.	2010	20591823	Huntington disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that predominantly affects neurons of the forebrain. We have applied the Illumina massively parallel sequencing to deeply analyze the small RNA populations of two different forebrain areas, the frontal cortex (FC) and the striatum (ST) of healthy individuals and individuals with HD. More than 80% of the small-RNAs were annotated as microRNAs (miRNAs) in all samples. Deep sequencing revealed length and sequence heterogeneity (IsomiRs) for the vast majority of miRNAs. Around 80-90% of the miRNAs presented modifications in the 3'-terminus mainly in the form of trimming and/or as nucleotide addition variants, while the 5'-terminus of the miRNAs was specially protected from changes. Expression profiling showed strong miRNA and isomiR expression deregulation in HD, most being common to both FC and ST. The analysis of the upstream regulatory regions in co-regulated miRNAs suggests a role for RE1-Silencing Transcription Factor (REST) and P53 in miRNAs downregulation in HD. The putative targets of deregulated miRNAs and seed-region IsomiRs strongly suggest that their altered expression contributes to the aberrant gene expression in HD. Our results show that miRNA variability is a ubiquitous phenomenon in the adult human brain, which may influence gene expression in physiological and pathological conditions.	Adult;Brain/ metabolism;Frontal Lobe/metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Genetic Variation;Humans;Huntington Disease/ genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ chemistry/metabolism;Neostriatum/metabolism;RNA, Small Untranslated/chemistry;Repressor Proteins/metabolism;Sequence Analysis, RNA
MicroRNAs and senescence	I. Martinez, et al.	2011	21304181		3' Untranslated Regions;Cell Aging/ physiology;Gene Expression Regulation;HeLa Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs;Retinoblastoma Protein/genetics/metabolism;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/metabolism
miR-29 and miR-30 regulate B-Myb expression during cellular senescence	I. Martinez, et al.	2011	21187425	Cellular senescence is a form of irreversible growth arrest and a major tumor suppressor mechanism. We show here that the miR-29 and miR-30 microRNA families are up-regulated during induced and replicative senescence and that up-regulation requires activation of the Rb pathway. Expression of a reporter construct containing the 3'UTR of the B-Myb oncogene is repressed during senescence, and repression is blocked by mutations in conserved miR-29 and miR-30 binding sites in the B-Myb 3'UTR. In proliferating cells, transfection of miR-29 and miR-30 represses a reporter construct containing the wild-type but not the mutant B-Myb 3'UTR, and repression of the mutant 3'UTR is reinstituted by compensatory mutations in miR-29 and miR-30 that restore binding to the mutant sites. miR-29 and miR-30 introduction also represses expression of endogenous B-Myb and inhibits cellular DNA synthesis. Finally, interference with miR-29 and miR-30 expression inhibits senescence. These findings demonstrate that miR-29 and miR-30 regulate B-Myb expression by binding to its 3'UTR and suggest that these microRNAs play an important role in Rb-driven cellular senescence.	3' Untranslated Regions;Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Cell Aging;Cell Cycle Proteins/ metabolism;Cell Proliferation;Fibroblasts/metabolism;HeLa Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Mutation;Retinoblastoma/metabolism;Trans-Activators/ metabolism;Up-Regulation
Early-Life Exposure to Lead (Pb) Alters the Expression of microRNA that Target Proteins Associated with Alzheimer's Disease	A. M. Masoud, et al.	2016	26923026	There is a growing recognition of the impact of environmental toxins on the epigenetic regulation of gene expression, including the genes that play a critical role in neural development, neural function, and neurodegeneration. We have shown previously that exposure to the heavy metal lead (Pb) in early life results in a latent over-expression of AD-related proteins in rodents and primates. The present study provides evidence that early postnatal exposure to Pb also alters the expression of select miRNA. Mice were exposed to 0.2% Pb acetate from Postnatal Day 1 (PND 1, first 24 h after birth) to PND 20 via their mother's milk. Brain tissue was harvested at PND 20, 180, or 700, and miRNA were isolated and quantified by qPCR. This exposure produced a transient increase (relative to control) in the expression of miR-106b (binds to AbetaPP mRNA), miR-29b (targets the mRNA for the transcription factor SP1) and two miRNAs (miR-29b and miR-132) that have the ability to inhibit translation of proteins involved in promoter methylation. The expression of miR-106b decreased over time in the Pb-exposed animals and was significantly less than the levels exhibited by the control animals at PND700. The level of miR-124, which binds to SP1 mRNA, was also reduced (relative to controls) at PND700. In summary, we show that exposure to the heavy metal Pb in early life has a significant impact on the short- and long-term expression of miRNA that target epigenetic mediators and neurotoxic proteins.	Age Factors;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/genetics/ metabolism;Animals;Animals, Newborn;Disease Models, Animal;Dose-Response Relationship, Drug;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/ drug effects;Lead/ toxicity;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Pregnancy;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Sp1 Transcription Factor/genetics/ metabolism;Amyloid-beta protein precursor;lead;miRNA;neurodegeneration;tau
Application of DNA microarray technology to gerontological studies	K. Masuda, et al.	2013	23929111	Gene expression patterns change dramatically in aging and age-related events. The DNA microarray is now recognized as a useful device in molecular biology and widely used to identify the molecular mechanisms of aging and the biological effects of drugs for therapeutic purpose in age-related diseases. Recently, numerous technological advantages have led to the evolution of DNA microarrays and microarray-based techniques, revealing the genomic modification and all transcriptional activity. Here, we show the step-by-step methods currently used in our lab to handling the oligonucleotide microarray and miRNA microarray. Moreover, we introduce the protocols of ribonucleoprotein [RNP] immunoprecipitation followed by microarray analysis (RIP-chip) which reveal the target mRNA of age-related RNA-binding proteins.	Aging/ genetics;Gene Expression/genetics;Humans;Immunoprecipitation/methods;MicroRNAs/genetics;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis/ methods;RNA-Binding Proteins/genetics;Ribonucleoproteins/analysis/metabolism
Expression of 14-3-3 transcript isoforms in response to ethanol exposure and their regulation by miRNAs	D. E. Mathew, et al.	2016	27370936	The 14-3-3 proteins are a family of highly conserved molecular chaperones involved in the regulation of a number of key cellular functions including metabolism, stress response, protein trafficking, cell-cycle control, signal transduction, transcription, apoptosis and neurotransmission. 14-3-3 proteins have also been implicated in the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer disease and Parkinson disease. Recent studies have also shown that 14-3-3s are differentially expressed in the frontal cortex of human alcoholics suggesting a potential role in the pathophysiology of alcohol use disorders. Here we measured the expression of 14-3-3 transcripts in HEK293T cells in response to chronic ethanol treatment. Five of the seven transcripts (14-3-3beta, 14-3-3gamma, 14-3-3zeta, 14-3-3epsilon and 14-3-3theta) were significantly down-regulated following chronic exposure to ethanol for a five day period with these changes persisting even after withdrawal from ethanol treatment. One transcript, 14-3-3sigma, was significantly up-regulated following chronic ethanol exposure and 14-3-3eta showed no differences in expression in the same treatment model. The pattern of expression changes is similar to those seen in the frontal cortex of human alcoholics. To investigate the role of miRNAs in mediating the expression changes we measured the expression of the 14-3-3 transcripts following transfection with miR-203, miR-144 and miR-7 mimics. Although these miRNAs had predicted target sites in the 3'untranslated region of each 14-3-3 isoform, only miR-203 resulted in a down-regulation of 14-3-3theta transcript. In addition, the expression of 14-3-3gamma was upregulated following transfection with miR-7 and miR-144 mimics. MiRNA regulation of these isoforms following alcohol exposure may lead to alterations in neurotransmission, the balance between cell survival and cell death, as well as changing the rewarding effects of alcohol.	Alcohol use disorder;Ethanol treatment;Gene expression;Real-time PCR;miRNA regulation
Feed My Heart or Eat It: miR-22 Decides	S. J. Matkovich and G. W. Dorn, 2nd	2016	27687199		MiR-22;aging;autophagy;circulating miRNA;p62
Direct and indirect involvement of microRNA-499 in clinical and experimental cardiomyopathy	S. J. Matkovich, et al.	2012	22752967	RATIONALE: MicroRNA-499 and other members of the myomiR family regulate myosin isoforms in pressure-overload hypertrophy. miR-499 expression varies in human disease, but results of mouse cardiac miR-499 overexpression are inconsistent, either protecting against ischemic damage or aggravating cardiomyopathy after pressure overload. Likewise, there is disagreement over direct and indirect cardiac mRNAs targeted in vivo by miR-499. OBJECTIVE: To define the associations between regulated miR-499 level in clinical and experimental heart disease and modulation of its predicted mRNA targets and to determine the consequences of increased cardiac miR-499 on direct mRNA targeting, indirect mRNA modulation, and on myocardial protein content and posttranslational modification. METHODS AND RESULTS: miR-499 levels were increased in failing and hypertrophied human hearts and associated with decreased levels of predicted target mRNAs. Likewise, miR-499 is increased in Gq-mediated murine cardiomyopathy. Forced cardiomyocyte expression of miR-499 at levels comparable to human cardiomyopathy induced progressive murine heart failure and exacerbated cardiac remodeling after pressure overloading. Genome-wide RNA-induced silencing complex and RNA sequencing identified 67 direct, and numerous indirect, cardiac mRNA targets, including Akt and MAPKs. Myocardial proteomics identified alterations in protein phosphorylation linked to the miR-499 cardiomyopathy phenotype, including of heat shock protein 90 and protein serine/threonine phosphatase 1-alpha. CONCLUSIONS: miR-499 is increased in human and murine cardiac hypertrophy and cardiomyopathy, is sufficient to cause murine heart failure, and accelerates maladaptation to pressure overloading. The deleterious effects of miR-499 reflect the cumulative consequences of direct and indirect mRNA regulation, modulation of cardiac kinase and phosphatase pathways, and higher-order effects on posttranslational modification of myocardial proteins.	Aging/physiology;Animals;Cardiomegaly/genetics/metabolism/physiopathology;Cardiomyopathies/genetics/metabolism/physiopathology;Disease Models, Animal;Down-Regulation/physiology;Gene Expression Profiling;HSP90 Heat-Shock Proteins/metabolism;Heart Failure/genetics/metabolism/physiopathology;Humans;MAP Kinase Signaling System/ genetics/physiology;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Phosphorylation/physiology;Protein Phosphatase 1/metabolism;Protein Processing, Post-Translational/physiology;Proteomics;Transgenes/physiology
Epigenetic Regulation of Myocardial Homeostasis, Self-Regeneration and Senescence	M. Matteucci, et al.	2015	26122032	The adult myocardium has limited capacity to preserve, renew or rejuvenate itself. The local microenvironment may induce epigenetic changes affecting the survival, proliferation, function and senescence of cardiac cells at rest and following the exposure to different stressors. The cellular response to microenvironment is characterized by the release of ions, oxygen free radicals, auto/paracrine factors and RNAs that drive the magnitude of gene reprogramming through the interaction with specific promoters. The epigenetic alterations may act at transcriptional and post-transcriptional level and change cardiac physiological traits. The abnormal DNA methylation underlies the progressive decay of contractile function and the angiogenic ability; while, the histone acetylation promotes the survival, function and proliferation of cardiac cells in the presence of ischemic microenvironment. At least, the expression and secretion of microRNAs and long noncoding RNAs may regulate the threshold to stress tolerance of adult cardiac cells and induce the matrix turnover as well. Natural or synthetic active compounds effectively modulate the epigenetic state of cardiac cells. Plant foods contain many active compounds with epigenetic properties and might assume a clinical significance as natural cardiac regenerators or rejuvenators. Our review describes novel epigenetic mechanisms that underpin myocardial remodeling, repair/ regeneration or senescence in order to support the development of most effective and reproducible rescue therapy of adult heart.	Acetylation;Animals;Cell Aging;DNA Methylation;Epigenesis, Genetic;Histones/metabolism;Humans;Myocytes, Cardiac/ physiology;Regeneration
Down-regulation of eIF4GII by miR-520c-3p represses diffuse large B cell lymphoma development	K. Mazan-Mamczarz, et al.	2014	24497838	Deregulation of the translational machinery is emerging as a critical contributor to cancer development. The contribution of microRNAs in translational gene control has been established however; the role of microRNAs in disrupting the cap-dependent translation regulation complex has not been previously described. Here, we established that elevated miR-520c-3p represses global translation, cell proliferation and initiates premature senescence in HeLa and DLBCL cells. Moreover, we demonstrate that miR-520c-3p directly targets translation initiation factor, eIF4GII mRNA and negatively regulates eIF4GII protein synthesis. miR-520c-3p overexpression diminishes cells colony formation and reduces tumor growth in a human xenograft mouse model. Consequently, downregulation of eIF4GII by siRNA decreases translation, cell proliferation and ability to form colonies, as well as induces cellular senescence. In vitro and in vivo findings were further validated in patient samples; DLBCL primary cells demonstrated low miR-520c-3p levels with reciprocally up-regulated eIF4GII protein expression. Our results provide evidence that the tumor suppressor effect of miR-520c-3p is mediated through repression of translation while inducing senescence and that eIF4GII is a key effector of this anti-tumor activity.	Animals;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Down-Regulation;Eukaryotic Initiation Factor-4G/biosynthesis/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Lymphoma, Large B-Cell, Diffuse/ genetics/pathology;Mice;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics;RNA, Small Interfering;Up-Regulation;Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays
Artificial miRNAs mitigate shRNA-mediated toxicity in the brain: implications for the therapeutic development of RNAi	J. L. McBride, et al.	2008	18398004	Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal, dominant neurodegenerative disease caused by a polyglutamine repeat expansion in exon 1 of the HD gene, which encodes the huntingtin protein. We and others have shown that RNAi is a candidate therapy for HD because expression of inhibitory RNAs targeting mutant human HD transgenes improved neuropathology and behavioral deficits in HD mouse models. Here, we developed shRNAs targeting conserved sequences in human HD and mouse HD homolog (HDh) mRNAs to initiate preclinical testing in a knockin mouse model of HD. We screened 35 shRNAs in vitro and subsequently narrowed our focus to three candidates for in vivo testing. Unexpectedly, two active shRNAs induced significant neurotoxicity in mouse striatum, although HDh mRNA expression was reduced to similar levels by all three. Additionally, a control shRNA containing mismatches also induced toxicity, although it did not reduce HDh mRNA expression. Interestingly, the toxic shRNAs generated higher antisense RNA levels, compared with the nontoxic shRNA. These results demonstrate that the robust levels of antisense RNAs emerging from shRNA expression systems can be problematic in the mouse brain. Importantly, when sequences that were toxic in the context of shRNAs were placed into artificial microRNA (miRNA) expression systems, molecular and neuropathological readouts of neurotoxicity were significantly attenuated without compromising mouse HDh silencing efficacy. Thus, miRNA-based approaches may provide more appropriate biological tools for expressing inhibitory RNAs in the brain, the implications of which are crucial to the development of RNAi for both basic biological and therapeutic applications.	Animals;Brain/drug effects;Corpus Striatum;Gene Silencing;Genetic Therapy/methods;Humans;Huntington Disease/therapy;Mice;MicroRNAs/chemical synthesis/ pharmacology/therapeutic use;Neurotoxicity Syndromes/ drug therapy/etiology;RNA Interference;RNA, Small Interfering/ adverse effects
Human blastocysts exhibit unique microrna profiles in relation to maternal age and chromosome constitution	B. R. McCallie, et al.	2014	24760722	PURPOSE: To determine microRNA (miRNA) expression in human blastocysts relative to advanced maternal age and chromosome constitution. METHODS: Cryopreserved human blastocysts were warmed and underwent a trophectoderm biopsy for comprehensive chromosomal screening. Select blastocysts were then lysed, reverse transcribed, and pre-amplified prior to running real-time PCR. Statistical analysis was performed using an internal constant housekeeping miRNA. Significant microRNA's of interest were then analyzed for their predicted genes and biological pathways. Additional cryopreserved blastocysts were warmed and stained for the SIRT1 protein for validation. RESULTS: Human blastocysts exhibit unique miRNA expression profiles in relation to maternal age and chromosome constitution. miR-93 was exclusively expressed in blastocysts from women in their forties and further up-regulated with an abnormal chromosome complement. Up-regulated miR-93 resulted in an inverse down-regulation of targets like SIRT1, resulting in reduced oxidative defense. CONCLUSIONS: MiRNAs play an important role in aging as well as chromosome constitution and have downstream effects that regulate proteins which can compromise embryonic development.	Adult;Aneuploidy;Blastocyst;Chromosomes/genetics;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Maternal Age;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics
microRNA and skeletal muscle function: novel potential roles in exercise, diseases, and aging	J. J. McCarthy	2014	25132822		aging;atrophy;hypertrophy;microRNA;skeletal muscle
microRNA-SIRT-1 interactions: key regulators of adult skeletal muscle homeostasis?	R. McCormick, et al.	2017	28370225		Sirt-1;microRNA;muscle aging
Identification of Molecular Markers of Delayed Graft Function Based on the Regulation of Biological Ageing	D. McGuinness, et al.	2016	26734715	INTRODUCTION: Delayed graft function is a prevalent clinical problem in renal transplantation for which there is no objective system to predict occurrence in advance. It can result in a significant increase in the necessity for hospitalisation post-transplant and is a significant risk factor for other post-transplant complications. METHODOLOGY: The importance of microRNAs (miRNAs), a specific subclass of small RNA, have been clearly demonstrated to influence many pathways in health and disease. To investigate the influence of miRNAs on renal allograft performance post-transplant, the expression of a panel of miRNAs in pre-transplant renal biopsies was measured using qPCR. Expression was then related to clinical parameters and outcomes in two independent renal transplant cohorts. RESULTS: Here we demonstrate, in two independent cohorts of pre-implantation human renal allograft biopsies, that a novel pre-transplant renal performance scoring system (GRPSS), can determine the occurrence of DGF with a high sensitivity (>90%) and specificity (>60%) for donor allografts pre-transplant, using just three senescence associated microRNAs combined with donor age and type of organ donation. CONCLUSION: These results demonstrate a relationship between pre-transplant microRNA expression levels, cellular biological ageing pathways and clinical outcomes for renal transplantation. They provide for a simple, rapid quantitative molecular pre-transplant assay to determine post-transplant allograft function and scope for future intervention. Furthermore, these results demonstrate the involvement of senescence pathways in ischaemic injury during the organ transplantation process and an indication of accelerated bio-ageing as a consequence of both warm and cold ischaemia.	Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Biomarkers/metabolism;Child;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p16/ metabolism;Delayed Graft Function/diagnosis/ metabolism;Female;Humans;Kidney/metabolism/physiopathology;Kidney Transplantation;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Middle Aged;ROC Curve;Young Adult
Reduced mature microRNA levels in association with dicer loss in human temporal lobe epilepsy with hippocampal sclerosis	R. C. McKiernan, et al.	2012	22615744	Hippocampal sclerosis (HS) is a common pathological finding in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) and is associated with altered expression of genes controlling neuronal excitability, glial function, neuroinflammation and cell death. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a class of small non-coding RNAs, function as post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression and are critical for normal brain development and function. Production of mature miRNAs requires Dicer, an RNAase III, loss of which has been shown to cause neuronal and glial dysfunction, seizures, and neurodegeneration. Here we investigated miRNA biogenesis in hippocampal and neocortical resection specimens from pharmacoresistant TLE patients and autopsy controls. Western blot analysis revealed protein levels of Dicer were significantly lower in certain TLE patients with HS. Dicer levels were also reduced in the hippocampus of mice subject to experimentally-induced epilepsy. To determine if Dicer loss was associated with altered miRNA processing, we profiled levels of 380 mature miRNAs in control and TLE-HS samples. Expression of nearly 200 miRNAs was detected in control human hippocampus. In TLE-HS samples there was a large-scale reduction of miRNA expression, with 51% expressed at lower levels and a further 24% not detectable. Primary transcript (pri-miRNAs) expression levels for several tested miRNAs were not different between control and TLE-HS samples. These findings suggest loss of Dicer and failure of mature miRNA expression may be a feature of the pathophysiology of HS in patients with TLE.	Adult;Animals;Computational Biology;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/ genetics;Epilepsy, Temporal Lobe/ genetics;Female;Hippocampus/ pathology;Humans;Male;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Ribonuclease III/ genetics;Sclerosis/ genetics
Cloning, characterization, and expression of microRNAs from the Asian malaria mosquito, Anopheles stephensi	E. A. Mead and Z. Tu	2008	18500992	BACKGROUND: microRNAs (miRNAs) are non-coding RNAs that are now recognized as a major class of gene-regulating molecules widely distributed in metozoans and plants. miRNAs have been found to play important roles in apoptosis, cancer, development, differentiation, inflammation, longevity, and viral infection. There are a few reports describing miRNAs in the African malaria mosquito, Anopheles gambiae, on the basis of similarity to known miRNAs from other species. An. stephensi is the most important malaria vector in Asia and it is becoming a model Anopheline species for physiological and genetics studies. RESULTS: We report the cloning and characterization of 27 distinct miRNAs from 17-day old An. stephensi female mosquitoes. Seventeen of the 27 miRNAs matched previously predicted An. gambiae miRNAs, offering the first experimental verification of miRNAs from mosquito species. Ten of the 27 are miRNAs previously unknown to mosquitoes, four of which did not match any known miRNAs in any organism. Twenty-five of the 27 Anopheles miRNAs had conserved sequences in the genome of a divergent relative, the yellow fever mosquito Aedes aegypti. Two clusters of miRNAs were found within introns of orthologous genes in An. gambiae, Ae. aegypti, and Drosophila melanogaster. Mature miRNAs were detected in An. stephensi for all of the nine selected miRNAs, including the four novel miRNAs (miR-x1- miR-x4), either by northern blot or by Ribonuclease Protection Assay. Expression profile analysis of eight of these miRNAs revealed distinct expression patterns from early embryo to adult stages in An. stephensi. In both An. stephensi and Ae. aegypti, the expression of miR-x2 was restricted to adult females and predominantly in the ovaries. A significant reduction of miR-x2 level was observed 72 hrs after a blood meal. Thus miR-x2 is likely involved in female reproduction and its function may be conserved among divergent mosquitoes. A mosquito homolog of miR-14, a regulator of longevity and apoptosis in D. melanogaster, represented 25% of all sequenced miRNA clones from 17-day old An. stephensi female mosquitoes. An. stephensi miR-14 displayed a relatively strong signal from late embryonic to adult stages. miR-14 expression is consistent during the adult lifespan regardless of age, sex, and blood feeding status. Thus miR-14 is likely important across all mosquito life stages. CONCLUSION: This study provides experimental evidence for 23 conserved and four new microRNAs in An. stephensi mosquitoes. Comparisons between miRNA gene clusters in Anopheles and Aedes mosquitoes, and in D. melanogaster suggest the loss or significant change of two miRNA genes in Ae. aegypti. Expression profile analysis of eight miRNAs, including the four new miRNAs, revealed distinct patterns from early embryo to adult stages in An. stephensi. Further analysis showed that miR-x2 is likely involved in female reproduction and its function may be conserved among divergent mosquitoes. Consistent expression of miR-14 suggests that it is likely important across all mosquito life stages from embryos to aged adults. Understanding the functions of mosquito miRNAs will undoubtedly contribute to a better understanding of mosquito biology including longevity, reproduction, and mosquito-pathogen interactions, which are important to disease transmission.	Animals;Anopheles/ genetics/physiology;Base Sequence;Blotting, Northern;Cloning, Molecular;Feeding Behavior/physiology;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Introns/genetics;Longevity/genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Multigene Family/genetics;Open Reading Frames;Ovary/metabolism;Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid;Time Factors
Mir-290-295 deficiency in mice results in partially penetrant embryonic lethality and germ cell defects	L. A. Medeiros, et al.	2011	21844366	Mir-290 through mir-295 (mir-290-295) is a mammalian-specific microRNA (miRNA) cluster that, in mice, is expressed specifically in early embryos and embryonic germ cells. Here, we show that mir-290-295 plays important roles in embryonic development as indicated by the partially penetrant lethality of mutant embryos. In addition, we show that in surviving mir-290-295-deficient embryos, female but not male fertility is compromised. This impairment in fertility arises from a defect in migrating primordial germ cells and occurs equally in male and female mutant animals. Male mir-290-295(-/-) mice, due to the extended proliferative lifespan of their germ cells, are able to recover from this initial germ cell loss and are fertile. Female mir-290-295(-/-) mice are unable to recover and are sterile, due to premature ovarian failure.	Aging/pathology;Animals;Animals, Newborn;Apoptosis;Cell Count;Cell Cycle;Embryo Loss/ genetics/ pathology;Embryo, Mammalian/metabolism/pathology;Female;Fertility/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Germ Cells/ metabolism/ pathology;Gonads/growth & development/pathology;Infertility, Female/genetics/pathology;Male;Mice;Mice, Mutant Strains;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Penetrance
MicroRNA-339 and microRNA-556 regulate Klotho expression in vitro	S. J. Mehi, et al.	2014	23818104	Klotho is an anti-aging protein with direct effects on life-span in mice. Klotho functions to regulate pathways classically associated with longevity including insulin/IGF1 and Wnt signaling. Decreased Klotho protein expression is observed throughout the body during the normal aging process. While increased methylation of the Klotho promoter is reported, other epigenetic mechanisms could contribute to age-related downregulation of Klotho expression, including microRNA-mediated regulation. Following in silico identification of potential microRNA binding sites within the Klotho 3' untranslated region, reporter assays reveal regulation by microRNA-339, microRNA-556, and, to a lesser extent, microRNA-10 and microRNA-199. MicroRNA-339 and microRNA-556 were further found to directly decrease Klotho protein expression indicating that, if upregulated in aging tissue, these microRNA could play a role in age-related downregulation of Klotho messenger RNA. These microRNAs are differentially regulated in cancer cells compared to normal cells and may imply a role for microRNA-mediated regulation of Klotho in cancer.	Aging/ physiology;Cells, Cultured;Genes, Reporter;Glucuronidase/ genetics/metabolism;Humans;In Vitro Techniques;Insulin-Like Growth Factor I/metabolism;Longevity/ genetics;Luciferases;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neoplasms/genetics;Promoter Regions, Genetic;Rna;Wnt Signaling Pathway/physiology
The MicroRNA-132 and MicroRNA-212 Cluster Regulates Hematopoietic Stem Cell Maintenance and Survival with Age by Buffering FOXO3 Expression	A. Mehta, et al.	2015	26084022	MicroRNAs are critical post-transcriptional regulators of hematopoietic cell-fate decisions, though little remains known about their role in aging hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). We found that the microRNA-212/132 cluster (Mirc19) is enriched in HSCs and is upregulated during aging. Both overexpression and deletion of microRNAs in this cluster leads to inappropriate hematopoiesis with age. Enforced expression of miR-132 in the bone marrow of mice led to rapid HSC cycling and depletion. A genetic deletion of Mirc19 in mice resulted in HSCs that had altered cycling, function, and survival in response to growth factor starvation. We found that miR-132 exerted its effect on aging HSCs by targeting the transcription factor FOXO3, a known aging associated gene. Our data demonstrate that Mirc19 plays a role in maintaining balanced hematopoietic output by buffering FOXO3 expression. We have thus identified it as a potential target that might play a role in age-related hematopoietic defects.	Aging/genetics;Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Bone Marrow Cells/ physiology;Cell Differentiation/genetics;Cell Line;Cell Survival/genetics;Forkhead Box Protein O3;Forkhead Transcription Factors/genetics/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Hematopoiesis/ genetics;Hematopoietic Stem Cells/ physiology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Knockout;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Stem Cell Factor/metabolism
Busulfan inhibits growth of human osteosarcoma through miR-200 family microRNAs in vitro and in vivo	Q. Mei, et al.	2014	24815002	Osteosarcoma typically arises in tissues of mesenchymal origin, and is the most malignant bone tumor characterized by high local aggressiveness, with poor therapeutic outcome. Busulfan has been widely used to treat CML. So far, there are no reports on the therapeutic effect of busulfan on osteosarcoma. Here, we showed that busulfan dose-dependently reduced the cell viability and proliferation, and induced cell apoptosis, senescence, and reactive oxygen species levels in two osteosarcoma cell lines. Moreover, a series of loss-of-function and gain-of-function experiments further indicated that busulfan may have its anti-osteosarcoma effect by upregulating the microRNA-200 (miR-200) family which subsequently downregulated its target genes ZEB1 and ZEB2. Furthermore, treatment with busulfan potentially inhibited the growth of implanted osteosarcoma in nude mice. Taken together, our data suggest that busulfan may have an anti-osteosarcoma effect through downregulating ZEB1 and ZEB2 through activating the miR-200 family, highlighting a possibility of using busulfan as a novel therapy for osteosarcoma.	Animals;Antineoplastic Agents, Alkylating/pharmacology;Apoptosis/drug effects;Bone Neoplasms/ drug therapy/ genetics/pathology;Busulfan/ pharmacology;Cell Line, Tumor/drug effects;Cell Survival/drug effects;Dose-Response Relationship, Drug;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Homeodomain Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Osteosarcoma/ drug therapy/ genetics/pathology;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Repressor Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;Up-Regulation/drug effects;Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays;Zinc Finger E-box-Binding Homeobox 1;Busulfan;Zeb1;Zeb2;microRNAs;osteosarcoma
Temporal Profile of MicroRNA Expression in Contused Cortex after Traumatic Brain Injury in Mice	L. Meissner, et al.	2016	26426744	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) were recently identified as important regulators of gene expression under a wide range of physiological and pathophysiological conditions. Thus, they may represent a novel class of molecular targets for the management of traumatic brain injury (TBI). In this study, we investigated the temporal profile of miRNA expression during the development of secondary brain damage after experimental TBI. For this purpose, we used a controlled cortical impact model in C57Bl/6 mice (n = 6) to induce a cortical contusion and analyzed miRNA expression in the traumatized cortex by microarray analysis during the development of secondary contusion expansion-i.e., at 1, 6, and 12 h after TBI. Of a total 780 mature miRNA sequences analyzed, 410 were detected in all experimental groups. Of these, 158 miRNAs were significantly upregulated or downregulated in TBI compared with sham-operated animals, and 52 miRNAs increased more than twofold. We validated the upregulation of five of the most differentially expressed miRNAs (miR-21*, miR-144, miR-184, miR-451, miR-2137) and the downregulation of four of the most differentially expressed miRNAs (miR-107, miR-137, miR-190, miR-541) by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). miR-2137, the most differentially expressed miRNA after TBI, was further investigated by in situ hybridization and was found to be upregulated in neurons within the traumatic penumbra. This study gives a comprehensive picture of miRNA expression levels during secondary contusion expansion after TBI and may pave the way for the identification of novel targets for the management of brain trauma.	Animals;Brain Contusion/ genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Brain Injuries, Traumatic/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Gene Expression;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/ genetics;Parietal Lobe/ metabolism/pathology;Time Factors;controlled cortical impact;miRNA;microarray;mouse;penumbra;traumatic brain injury
Editorial: Non-coding RNA Regulation: Lessons from Model Organisms and Impact on Human Health	K. Mekhail	2016	27065362		cancer;genetic models;humans;inflammation;lncRNA;miRNA;ncRNA;neurodegeneration
Developmental regulation of ecdysone receptor (EcR) and EcR-controlled gene expression during pharate-adult development of honeybees (Apis mellifera)	T. R. Mello, et al.	2014	25566327	Major developmental transitions in multicellular organisms are driven by steroid hormones. In insects, these, together with juvenile hormone (JH), control development, metamorphosis, reproduction and aging, and are also suggested to play an important role in caste differentiation of social insects. Here, we aimed to determine how EcR transcription and ecdysteroid titers are related during honeybee postembryonic development and what may actually be the role of EcR in caste development of this social insect. In addition, we expected that knocking-down EcR gene expression would give us information on the participation of the respective protein in regulating downstream targets of EcR. We found that in Apis mellifera females, EcR-A is the predominantly expressed variant in postembryonic development, while EcR-B transcript levels are higher in embryos, indicating an early developmental switch in EcR function. During larval and pupal stages, EcR-B expression levels are very low, while EcR-A transcripts are more variable and abundant in workers compared to queens. Strikingly, these transcript levels are opposite to the ecdysteroid titer profile. 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) application experiments revealed that low 20E levels induce EcR expression during development, whereas high ecdysteroid titers seem to be repressive. By means of RNAi-mediated knockdown (KD) of both EcR transcript variants we detected the differential expression of 234 poly-A(+) transcripts encoding genes such as CYPs, MRJPs and certain hormone response genes (Kr-h1 and ftz-f1). EcR-KD also promoted the differential expression of 70 miRNAs, including highly conserved ones (e.g., miR-133 and miR-375), as well honeybee-specific ones (e.g., miR-3745 and miR-3761). Our results put in evidence a broad spectrum of EcR-controlled gene expression during postembryonic development of honeybees, revealing new facets of EcR biology in this social insect.	20e;Jh;RNAi;adult development;ecdysteroid;honey bee;juvenile hormone;miRNA
Dynamic macrophage polarization-specific miRNA patterns reveal increased soluble VEGF receptor 1 by miR-125a-5p inhibition	D. W. Melton, et al.	2016	26884460	Dynamic, epigenetic mechanisms can regulate macrophage phenotypes following exposure to different stimulating conditions and environments. However, temporal patterns of microRNAs (miRNAs or miRs) across multiple macrophage polarization phenotypes have not been defined. We determined miRNA expression in bone marrow-derived murine macrophages over multiple time points (0.5, 1, 3, 24 h) following exposure to cytokines and/or LPS. We hypothesized that dynamic changes in miRNAs regulate macrophage phenotypes. Changes in macrophage polarization markers were detected as early as 0.5 and as late as 24 h; however, robust responses for most markers occurred within 3 h. In parallel, many polarization-specific miRNAs were also changed by 3 h and expressed divergent patterns between M1 and M2a conditions, with increased expression in M1 (miR-155, 199a-3p, 214-3p, 455-3p, and 125a) or M2a (miR-511 and 449a). Specifically, miR-125a-5p exhibited divergent patterns: increased at 12-24 h in M1 macrophages and decreasing trend in M2a. VEGF in the culture media of macrophages was dependent upon the polarization state, with greatly diminished VEGF in M2a compared with M1 macrophage culture media despite similar VEGF in cell lysates. Inhibition of miR-125a-5p in media-only controls (MO) and M1 macrophages greatly increased expression and secretion of soluble VEGF receptor-1 (sVEGFR1) leading to diminished VEGF in the culture media, partially converting MO and M1 into an M2a phenotype. Thus, the divergent expression patterns of polarization-specific miRNAs led to the identification and demonstrated the regulation of a specific macrophage polarization phenotype, sVEGFR1 by inhibition of miR-125a-5p.	Animals;Cells, Cultured;Gene Expression/genetics;Macrophages/ metabolism;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Phenotype;Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A/genetics;Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-1/ genetics;M1;M2a;M2c;Vegf;microRNAs;temporal
Circular RNAs are a large class of animal RNAs with regulatory potency	S. Memczak, et al.	2013	23446348	Circular RNAs (circRNAs) in animals are an enigmatic class of RNA with unknown function. To explore circRNAs systematically, we sequenced and computationally analysed human, mouse and nematode RNA. We detected thousands of well-expressed, stable circRNAs, often showing tissue/developmental-stage-specific expression. Sequence analysis indicated important regulatory functions for circRNAs. We found that a human circRNA, antisense to the cerebellar degeneration-related protein 1 transcript (CDR1as), is densely bound by microRNA (miRNA) effector complexes and harbours 63 conserved binding sites for the ancient miRNA miR-7. Further analyses indicated that CDR1as functions to bind miR-7 in neuronal tissues. Human CDR1as expression in zebrafish impaired midbrain development, similar to knocking down miR-7, suggesting that CDR1as is a miRNA antagonist with a miRNA-binding capacity ten times higher than any other known transcript. Together, our data provide evidence that circRNAs form a large class of post-transcriptional regulators. Numerous circRNAs form by head-to-tail splicing of exons, suggesting previously unrecognized regulatory potential of coding sequences.	Animals;Autoantigens/genetics/metabolism;Binding Sites;Brain/metabolism;Caenorhabditis elegans/genetics/metabolism;Cell Line;Conserved Sequence;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Male;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics/metabolism;RNA/genetics/ metabolism;Zebrafish/embryology/genetics/metabolism
Shared Biologic Pathways Between Alzheimer Disease and Major Depression: A Systematic Review of MicroRNA Expression Studies	A. P. Mendes-Silva, et al.	2016	27591915	OBJECTIVE: The clinical-epidemiological relationship between major depressive disorder (MDD) and Alzheimer disease (AD) suggests that they may share common neurobiologic abnormalities. METHODS: The authors conducted a systematic review and identified microRNAs abnormally expressed in both AD and MDD. The pattern of microRNA regulation in each disorder and the genes regulated by each microRNA and the biologic processes and pathways regulated by these genes were identified. RESULTS: Seventy-four microRNAs were abnormally expressed in AD and 30 in MDD; 7 were common for both disorders (hsa-let-7f-5p, hsa-miR-664a-3p, hsa-miR-361-5p, hsa-let-7g-5p, hsa-let-7d-5p, hsa-miR-191-5p, hsa-miR-26b-5p). These microRNAs interact with 45 validated genes, and the main biologic pathways and processes regulated by them were proteostasis control, maintenance of genomic integrity, regulation of transcriptional activity, immune-inflammatory control, and neurotrophic support. CONCLUSION: The current results suggest that the maintenance of genomic integrity, proteostasis control, immune-inflammatory regulation, and neurotrophic support are key neurobiologic links between these conditions. A comprehensive hypothetical model for the interaction between MDD, aging, and the development of AD is provided.	Alzheimer disease;biologic pathways;biomarkers;geriatric depression;major depressive disorder;microRNAs
Constructing and characterizing a bioactive small molecule and microRNA association network for Alzheimer's disease	F. Meng, et al.	2014	24352679	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an incurable neurodegenerative disorder. Much effort has been devoted to developing effective therapeutic agents. Recently, targeting microRNAs (miRNAs) with small molecules has become a novel therapy for human diseases. In this study, we present a systematic computational approach to construct a bioactive Small molecule and miRNA association Network in AD (SmiRN-AD), which is based on the gene expression signatures of bioactive small molecule perturbation and AD-related miRNA regulation. We also performed topological and functional analysis of the SmiRN-AD from multiple perspectives. At the significance level of p </= 0.01, 496 small molecule-miRNA associations, including 25 AD-related miRNAs and 275 small molecules, were recognized and used to construct the SmiRN-AD. The drugs that were connected with the same miRNA tended to share common drug targets (p = 1.72 x 10(-4)) and belong to the same therapeutic category (p = 4.22 x 10(-8)). The miRNAs that were linked to the same small molecule regulated more common miRNA targets (p = 6.07 x 10(-3)). Further analysis of the positive connections (quinostatin and miR-148b, amantadine and miR-15a) and the negative connections (melatonin and miR-30e-5p) indicated that our large-scale predictions afforded specific biological insights into AD pathogenesis and therapy. This study proposes a holistic strategy for deciphering the associations between small molecules and miRNAs in AD, which may be helpful for developing a novel effective miRNA-associated therapeutic strategy for AD. A comprehensive database for the SmiRN-AD and the differential expression patterns of the miRNA targets in AD is freely available at http://bioinfo.hrbmu.edu.cn/SmiRN-AD/.	Alzheimer Disease/drug therapy/genetics/ metabolism;Amantadine;Computational Biology/ methods;Gene Expression Regulation/genetics/ physiology;Heterocyclic Compounds, 3-Ring;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Quinolines;Small Molecule Libraries/ metabolism;Alzheimer's disease;bioinformatics;drug;microRNA;small molecule;therapeutics
Identification of miR-194-5p as a potential biomarker for postmenopausal osteoporosis	J. Meng, et al.	2015	26038726	The incidence of osteoporosis is high in postmenopausal women due to altered estrogen levels and continuous calcium loss that occurs with aging. Recent studies have shown that microRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in the development of osteoporosis. These miRNAs may be used as potential biomarkers to identify women at a high risk for developing the disease. In this study, whole blood samples were collected from 48 postmenopausal Chinese women with osteopenia or osteoporosis and pooled into six groups according to individual T-scores. A miRNA microarray analysis was performed on pooled blood samples to identify potential miRNA biomarkers for postmenopausal osteoporosis. Five miRNAs (miR-130b-3p, -151a-3p, -151b, -194-5p, and -590-5p) were identified in the microarray analysis. These dysregulated miRNAs were subjected to a pathway analysis investigating whether they were involved in regulating osteoporosis-related pathways. Among them, only miR-194-5p was enriched in multiple osteoporosis-related pathways. Enhanced miR-194-5p expression in women with osteoporosis was confirmed by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis. For external validation, a significant correlation between the expression of miR-194-5p and T-scores was found in an independent patient collection comprised of 24 postmenopausal women with normal bone mineral density, 30 postmenopausal women with osteopenia, and 32 postmenopausal women with osteoporosis (p < 0.05). Taken together, the present findings suggest that miR-194-5p may be a viable miRNA biomarker for postmenopausal osteoporosis.	Biomarker;MicroRNA;Postmenopausal osteoporosis;miR-194
MicroRNA profiling analysis revealed different cellular senescence mechanisms in human mesenchymal stem cells derived from different origin	X. Meng, et al.	2017	28215993	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) from human umbilical cord (UC) and cord blood (CB) share many common properties and exhibit promising clinical potential. Cellular senescence, which induces the loss of stem cells characters and disrupts their therapeutic functions, has been demonstrated to be under the regulation of microRNAs (miRNAs). In this study, we compared the miRNA profiles in early and late passage UCMSCs and CBMSCs based on deep sequencing. 224 and 170 miRNAs were significantly altered in UCMSCs and CBMSCs respectively. A functional annotation of the predicted miRNA targets revealed a series of common senescence pathways. However, Functional enrichment analysis revealed different bioprocesses involved in cellular senescence of UC- and CB-MSCs. The common miRNAs shared by the two kinds of MSCs also exert different function in terms of GO enrichment analysis. Our results supported MSCs derived from different origin may undergo senescence through different path.	Cord blood;Mesenchymal stem cell;MicroRNA;Senescence;Umbilical cord
MicroRNA 217 modulates endothelial cell senescence via silent information regulator 1	R. Menghini, et al.	2009	19786632	BACKGROUND: Aging is a major risk factor for the development of atherosclerosis and coronary artery disease. Through a microarray approach, we have identified a microRNA (miR-217) that is progressively expressed in endothelial cells with aging. miR-217 regulates the expression of silent information regulator 1 (SirT1), a major regulator of longevity and metabolic disorders that is progressively reduced in multiple tissues during aging. METHODS AND RESULTS: miR-217 inhibits SirT1 expression through a miR-217-binding site within the 3'-UTR of SirT1. In young human umbilical vein endothelial cells, human aortic endothelial cells, and human coronary artery endothelial cells, miR-217 induces a premature senescence-like phenotype and leads to an impairment in angiogenesis via inhibition of SirT1 and modulation of FoxO1 (forkhead box O1) and endothelial nitric oxide synthase acetylation. Conversely, inhibition of miR-217 in old endothelial cells ultimately reduces senescence and increases angiogenic activity via an increase in SirT1. miR-217 is expressed in human atherosclerotic lesions and is negatively correlated with SirT1 expression and with FoxO1 acetylation status. CONCLUSIONS: Our data pinpoint miR-217 as an endogenous inhibitor of SirT1, which promotes endothelial senescence and is potentially amenable to therapeutic manipulation for prevention of endothelial dysfunction in metabolic disorders.	Aging/physiology;Cell Aging/ physiology;Cell Line;Endothelial Cells/ physiology;Humans;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Sirtuin 1;Sirtuins/antagonists & inhibitors/ physiology
MiR-216a: a link between endothelial dysfunction and autophagy	R. Menghini, et al.	2014	24481443	Endothelial dysfunction and impaired autophagic activity have a crucial role in aging-related diseases such as cardiovascular dysfunction and atherosclerosis. We have identified miR-216a as a microRNA that is induced during endothelial aging and, according to the computational analysis, among its targets includes two autophagy-related genes, Beclin1 (BECN1) and ATG5. Therefore, we have evaluated the role of miR-216a as a molecular component involved in the loss of autophagic function during endothelial aging. The inverse correlation between miR-216a and autophagic genes was conserved during human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) aging and in vivo models of human atherosclerosis and heart failure. Luciferase experiments indicated BECN1, but not ATG5 as a direct target of miR-216a. HUVECs were transfected in order to modulate miR-216a expression and stimulated with 100 mug/ml oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL) to induce a stress repairing autophagic process. We found that in young HUVECs, miR-216a overexpression repressed BECN1 and ATG5 expression and the ox-LDL induced autophagy, as evaluated by microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3B) analysis and cytofluorimetric assay. Moreover, miR-216a stimulated ox-LDL accumulation and monocyte adhesion in HUVECs. Conversely, inhibition of miR-216a in old HUVECs rescued the ability to induce a protective autophagy in response to ox-LDL stimulus. In conclusion, mir-216a controls ox-LDL induced autophagy in HUVECs by regulating intracellular levels of BECN1 and may have a relevant role in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular disorders and atherosclerosis.	Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Atherosclerosis/genetics/ metabolism/physiopathology;Autophagy;Autophagy-Related Protein 5;Beclin-1;Heart Failure/genetics/ metabolism/physiopathology;Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells/ cytology/ metabolism;Humans;Lipoproteins, LDL/metabolism;Membrane Proteins/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Microtubule-Associated Proteins/genetics/metabolism
Higher cardiogenic potential of iPSCs derived from cardiac versus skin stromal cells	V. Meraviglia, et al.	2016	26709802	Prior studies have demonstrated that founder cell type could influence induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) molecular and developmental properties at early passages after establishing their pluripotent state. Herein, we evaluated the persistence of a functional memory related to the tissue of origin in iPSCs from syngeneic cardiac (CStC) vs skin stromal cells (SStCs). We found that, at passages greater than 15, iPSCs from cardiac stromal cells (C-iPSCs) produced a higher number of beating embryoid bodies than iPSCs from skin stromal cells (S-iPSCs). Flow cytometry analysis revealed that dissected beating areas from C-iPSCs exhibited more Troponin-T positive cells compared to S-iPSCs. Beating areas derived from C-iPSCs displayed higher expression of cardiac markers, more hyperpolarized diastolic potentials, larger action potential amplitude and higher contractility than beaters from skin. Also, different microRNA subsets were differentially modulated in CStCs vs SStCs during the reprogramming process, potentially accounting for the higher cardiogenic potentials of C-iPSCs vs S-iPSCs. Therefore, the present work supports the existence of a founder organ memory in iPSCs obtained from the stromal component of the origin tissue.	Animals;Cell Differentiation;Cells, Cultured;Humans;Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells/ cytology/metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics;Myocardium/ cytology/metabolism
Age-associated miRNA alterations in skeletal muscle from rhesus monkeys reversed by caloric restriction	E. M. Mercken, et al.	2013	24036467	The levels of microRNAs (miRNAs) are altered under different conditions such as cancer, senescence, and aging. Here, we have identified differentially expressed miRNAs in skeletal muscle from young and old rhesus monkeys using RNA sequencing. In old muscle, several miRNAs were upregulated, including miR-451, miR-144, miR-18a and miR-15a, while a few miRNAs were downregulated, including miR-181a and miR-181b. A number of novel miRNAs were also identified, particularly in old muscle. We also examined the impact of caloric restriction (CR) on miRNA abundance by reverse transcription (RT) followed by real-time, quantitative (q)PCR analysis and found that CR rescued the levels of miR-181b and chr1:205580546, and also dampened the age-induced increase in miR-451 and miR-144 levels. Our results reveal that there are changes in expression of known and novel miRNAs with skeletal muscle aging and that CR may reverse some of these changes to a younger phenotype.	Aging/ genetics/ metabolism;Animals;Caloric Restriction;Down-Regulation;Humans;Macaca mulatta/ genetics/growth & development/ metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Muscle, Skeletal/growth & development/ metabolism;Muscular Diseases/genetics/metabolism;Species Specificity;Up-Regulation
Interdependent regulation of p53 and miR-34a in chronic lymphocytic leukemia	O. Merkel, et al.	2010	20581456	Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has an incidence 4/1,00,000 people in the western world and is one of the first cancers reported to be associated with deregulated miRNA expression. microRNAs are small non coding RNAs that are important regulators of protein expression through binding to their untranslated 3'-UTR region. The miR-34 family was demonstrated to be induced by the tumor suppressor p53 and to elicit p53-like responses like senescence, cell cycle arrest and apoptosis depending on the cell type. We have shown in a recent paper that miR-34a is severely increased in the TCL1-mouse model of CLL. This finding was reflected in human CLL. Moreover, it is demonstrated that its expression is dependent on the presence of the SNP309 in the intronic promoter of the MDM2 gene. In addition, low miR-34a expression was associated with shorter time to treatment (log-rank p = 0.003) in CLL. When reintroduced into CLL cells, miR-34a was able to induce apoptosis. Interestingly, this was dependent on an intact p53 pathway. Here, we present data showing that knockdown of p53 in HCT-116 cells severely reduces miR-34a induced apoptosis. In conclusion, miR-34a is proposed as a marker for the activity of the p53 pathway in CLL.	Apoptosis;HCT116 Cells;Humans;Leukemia, Lymphocytic, Chronic, B-Cell/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Promoter Regions, Genetic;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-mdm2/genetics/metabolism;RNA Interference;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/ metabolism
Estrogen and Alzheimer's disease: Still an attractive topic despite disappointment from early clinical results	S. Merlo, et al.	2017	28577965	Since publication of the results of the Women Health Initiative Memory Study demonstrating that hormone therapy initiated late after menopause increases the risk of dementia in women, attempts have been made to identify a "critical window of intervention". In the meantime, basic research carried out in the last 10-15 years has reinforced the concept of a strong impact of estrogen in neuroprotection, moving also into novel directions that include characterization of estrogen's effect on non-neuronal cells, mitochondrial function, miRNA production and novel targets for their action in the central nervous system (CNS). All these findings, together with a list of recent animal models of Alzheimer's Disease that appear feasible for the study of estrogen's CNS effect are here summarized and accompanied by the most recent data from clinical trials in which hormone therapy was initiated early after menopause.	Alzheimer's disease;Estrogen;Hormone replacement therapy;Whims
FUCHS-towards full circular RNA characterization using RNAseq	F. Metge, et al.	2017	28265491	Circular RNAs (circRNAs) belong to a recently re-discovered species of RNA that emerge during RNA maturation through a process called back-splicing. A downstream 5' splice site is linked to an upstream 3' splice site to form a circular transcript instead of a canonical linear transcript. Recent advances in next-generation sequencing (NGS) have brought circRNAs back into the focus of many scientists. Since then, several studies reported that circRNAs are differentially expressed across tissue types and developmental stages, implying that they are actively regulated and not merely a by-product of splicing. Though functional studies have shown that some circRNAs could act as miRNA-sponges, the function of most circRNAs remains unknown. To expand our understanding of possible roles of circular RNAs, we propose a new pipeline that could fully characterizes candidate circRNA structure from RNAseq data-FUCHS: FUll CHaracterization of circular RNA using RNA-Sequencing. Currently, most computational prediction pipelines use back-spliced reads to identify circular RNAs. FUCHS extends this concept by considering all RNA-seq information from long reads (typically >150 bp) to learn more about the exon coverage, the number of double break point fragments, the different circular isoforms arising from one host-gene, and the alternatively spliced exons within the same circRNA boundaries. This new knowledge will enable the user to carry out differential motif enrichment and miRNA seed analysis to determine potential regulators during circRNA biogenesis. FUCHS is an easy-to-use Python based pipeline that contributes a new aspect to the circRNA research.	Alternative-splicing;Circular RNA;Transcriptomics
cel-mir-237 and its homologue, hsa-miR-125b, modulate the cellular response to ionizing radiation	C. Metheetrairut, et al.	2017	27321180	Elucidating the mechanisms involved in sensitizing radioresistant tumors to ionizing radiation (IR) treatments while minimizing injury to surrounding normal tissue is an important clinical goal. Due to their sequence-derived specificity and properties as gene regulators in IR-affected pathways, microRNAs (miRNAs) could serve as adjuvant therapeutic agents that alter cellular sensitivity to radiation treatment. To identify radiosensitizing miRNAs, we initially utilized the Caenorhabditis elegans vulval cell model, an in vivo system developed to study IR-dependent radiosensitivity as a measure of clonogenic cell death. We tested several candidate miRNA-deletion mutants post gamma-irradiation and identified cel-mir-237 as a miRNA which when deleted caused animals to be more resistant to IR, whereas cel-mir-237 overexpressing strains were IR sensitive. In addition, wild-type animals downregulated cel-mir-237 levels post IR in a time-dependent manner. We identified jun-1 (JUN transcription factor homolog) as a novel target of cel-mir-237. Specifically, jun-1 transcript levels increased in wild-type animals post gamma-irradiation, and loss of cel-mir-237 also resulted in higher jun-1 expression. As expected, loss of jun-1 resulted in IR sensitivity, similar to the phenotype of cel-mir-237 overexpressors. As miR-237 is the homolog of human miR-125, we validated our findings in MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cell lines, which harbor lower hsa-miR-125b levels than normal human mammary epithelial cells (HMECs). Forced expression of hsa-miR-125b in these cells resulted in radiosensitivity, as seen by reduced clonogenic survival, enhanced apoptotic activity and enhanced senescence post IR. Finally, re-expression of c-JUN in MDA-MB-231 cells promoted radioresistance and abrogated miR-125-mediated radiosensitization. Our findings suggest that overexpression of cel-mir-237 and its homolog, hsa-miR-125b, functions as sensitizers to gamma-irradiation in both a nematode in vivo model and breast cancer cells, and could potentially be utilized as an adjuvant therapeutic to enhance radiation sensitivity.	
Genome-Wide Scleral Micro- and Messenger-RNA Regulation During Myopia Development in the Mouse	R. Metlapally, et al.	2016	27832275	Purpose: MicroRNA (miRNAs) have been previously implicated in scleral remodeling in normal eye growth. They have the potential to be therapeutic targets for prevention/retardation of exaggerated eye growth in myopia by modulating scleral matrix remodeling. To explore this potential, genome-wide miRNA and messenger RNA (mRNA) scleral profiles in myopic and control eyes from mice were studied. Methods: C57BL/6J mice (n = 7; P28) reared under a 12L:12D cycle were form-deprived (FD) unilaterally for 2 weeks. Refractive error and axial length changes were measured using photorefraction and 1310-nm spectral-domain optical coherence tomography, respectively. Scleral RNA samples from FD and fellow control eyes were processed for microarray assay. Statistical analyses were performed using National Institute of Aging array analysis tool; group comparisons were made using ANOVA, and gene ontologies were identified using software available on the Web. Findings were confirmed using quantitative PCR in a separate group of mice (n = 7). Results: Form-deprived eyes showed myopic shifts in refractive error (-2.02 +/- 0.47 D; P < 0.01). Comparison of the scleral RNA profiles of test eyes with those of control eyes revealed 54 differentially expressed miRNAs and 261 mRNAs fold-change >1.25 (maximum fold change = 1.63 and 2.7 for miRNAs and mRNAs, respectively) (P < 0.05; minimum, P = 0.0001). Significant ontologies showing gene over-representation (P < 0.05) included intermediate filament organization, scaffold protein binding, detection of stimuli, calcium ion, G protein, and phototransduction. Significant differential expression of Let-7a and miR-16-2, and Smok4a, Prph2, and Gnat1 were confirmed. Conclusions: Scleral mi- and mRNAs showed differential expression linked to myopia, supporting the involvement of miRNAs in eye growth regulation. The observed general trend of relatively small fold-changes suggests a tightly controlled, regulatory mechanism for scleral gene expression.	Animals;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression Regulation;Genome-Wide Association Study;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;Myopia/ genetics/metabolism/physiopathology;RNA, Messenger/biosynthesis/ genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Refraction, Ocular;Sclera/ metabolism/pathology;Sensory Deprivation;Tomography, Optical Coherence
Reduced miR-512 and the Elevated Expression of Its Targets cFLIP and MCL1 Localize to Neurons With Hyperphosphorylated Tau Protein in Alzheimer Disease	L. Mezache, et al.	2015	26258756	The cause for the neurofibrillary tangles and plaques in Alzheimer disease likely relates to an abnormal accumulation of their key components, which include beta-amyloid and hyperphosphorylated tau protein. We segregated Alzheimer brain sections from people with end-stage disease into those with abundant hyperphosphorylated tau protein and those without and compared each to normal brains for global microRNA patterns. A significant reduced expression of several microRNAs, including miR-512, was evident in the Alzheimer brain sections with abundant hyperphosphorylated tau. Immunohistochemistry documented that 2 known targets of microRNA-512, cFLIP and MCL1, were significantly over expressed and each colocalized to neurons with the abnormal tau protein. Analysis for apoptosis including activated caspase-3, increased caspase-4 and caspase-8, apoptosis initiating factor, APAF-1 activity, and the TUNEL assay was negative in the areas where neurons showed hyperphosphorylated tau. MCM2 expression, a marker of neuroprogenitor cells, was significantly reduced in the Alzheimer sections that contained the hyperphosphorylated tau. These results suggest that a basic defect in Alzheimer disease may be the reduced microRNA-driven increased expression of proteins that may alter the apoptotic/antiapoptotic balance of neurons. This, in turn, could lead to the accumulation of key Alzheimer proteins such as hyperphosphorylated tau that ultimately prevent normal neuronal function and lead to disease symptomatology.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Amyloid beta-Peptides/genetics/metabolism;Apoptosis/genetics;Apoptosis Inducing Factor/genetics/metabolism;Apoptotic Protease-Activating Factor 1/genetics/metabolism;Brain/ metabolism/pathology;CASP8 and FADD-Like Apoptosis Regulating Protein/ genetics/metabolism;Caspase 3/genetics/metabolism;Caspase 8/genetics/metabolism;Caspases, Initiator/genetics/metabolism;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Immunohistochemistry;In Situ Nick-End Labeling;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Minichromosome Maintenance Complex Component 2/genetics/metabolism;Myeloid Cell Leukemia Sequence 1 Protein/ genetics/metabolism;Neurons/metabolism/pathology;Phosphorylation;tau Proteins/ genetics/metabolism
Regulation of proapoptotic proteins Bak1 and p53 by miR-125b in an experimental model of Alzheimer's disease: Protective role of 17beta-estradiol	F. Micheli, et al.	2016	27235580	Alzheimer's disease has become one of the most impacting disorders since world population is rapidly aging. MicroRNA-125b plays a crucial role in many cellular processes and pathologies, but, to date, its role in Alzheimer's disease is controversial. In this study, we demonstrated, for the first time, that the down regulation of miR-125b is a key event for the neurotoxic effect of Abeta treatment in cortical neurons. Moreover, we found that 17beta-estradiol treatment protects neurons from the Abeta-peptide induced neurotoxicity by increasing miR-125b expression that, in turn, decreased the expression, both at gene and protein levels, of the pro-apoptopic proteins Bak1 and p53. Overall, our data reveal miR-125b as a novel neuro-protector miRNA in Alzheimer's disease.	17beta-Estradiol;Alzheimer' disease;mir-125b
Unsuccessful Detection of Plant MicroRNAs in Beer, Extra Virgin Olive Oil and Human Plasma After an Acute Ingestion of Extra Virgin Olive Oil	V. Mico, et al.	2016	26872816	The recent description of the presence of exogenous plant microRNAs from rice in human plasma had profound implications for the interpretation of microRNAs function in human health. If validated, these results suggest that food should not be considered only as a macronutrient and micronutrient supplier but it could also be a way of genomic interchange between kingdoms. Subsequently, several studies have tried to replicate these results in rice and other plant foods and most of them have failed to find plant microRNAs in human plasma. In this scenario, we aimed to detect plant microRNAs in beer and extra virgin olive oil (EVOO)--two plant-derived liquid products frequently consumed in Spain--as well as in human plasma after an acute ingestion of EVOO. Our hypothesis was that microRNAs present in beer and EVOO raw material could survive manufacturing processes, be part of these liquid products, be absorbed by human gut and circulate in human plasma. To test this hypothesis, we first optimized the microRNA extraction protocol to extract microRNAs from beer and EVOO, and then tried to detect microRNAs in those samples and in plasma samples of healthy volunteers after an acute ingestion of EVOO.	Animals;Beer/ analysis;Eating;Female;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Humans;MicroRNAs/ analysis/blood;Milk/chemistry;Olive Oil/ analysis;Oryza/ genetics;RNA, Plant/analysis/blood;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Beer;Extra virgin olive oil;Next generation sequencing;Plant microRNAs
MicroRNA-7 inhibition rescues age-associated loss of epidermal growth factor receptor and hyaluronan-dependent differentiation in fibroblasts	A. C. Midgley, et al.	2014	24134702	Age-related defects in fibroblast differentiation were previously shown to be associated with impaired hyaluronan synthase 2 (HAS2) and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) function, with both required for normal fibroblast functionality. In fibroblasts, transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta1)-dependent phenotypic activation uses two distinct but co-operating pathways that involve TGF-beta receptor (TGF-betaR)/Smad2 activation and HA-mediated CD44-EGFR co-localization and signalling through extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2). The HA-mediated CD44-EGFR pathway was found to be compromised with in vitro aging, through loss of EGFR expression and a reduced movement of CD44 throughout the cellular membrane. Here, we also investigate the involvement of microRNAs (miRNAs) in age-related loss of differentiation, through investigation of miRNA-7 (miR-7) regulation of the HA-mediated EGFR-signalling pathway. The transcription of miR-7 was found to be upregulated in aged cells. In young cells, age-related loss of differentiation could be mimicked through transfection of pre-miR-7, and in aged cells, could be reversed through transfection of locked nucleic acids (LNA) targeting miR-7. Additionally, miR-7 was found to be involved in the regulation of CD44 membrane motility, which was downregulated in instances of miR-7 upregulation, and partially restorable through either miR-7 inhibition or HAS2 overexpression. The altered dynamics of CD44 in the cell membrane demonstrated a further action of miR-7 in regulating the HA-dependent CD44/EGFR pathway. We explain this novel mechanism of age-associated functional consequence due to miR-7 upregulation and demonstrate that it is reversible; highlighting miR-7 as a potential target for restoring the healing capabilities in chronic wounds in the elderly.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Antigens, CD44/metabolism;Base Sequence;Cell Aging/ drug effects/genetics;Cell Differentiation/ drug effects/genetics;Cell Membrane/drug effects/metabolism;Down-Regulation/drug effects/genetics;Fibroblasts/ cytology/drug effects/metabolism;Glucuronosyltransferase/metabolism;Humans;Hyaluronic Acid/ pharmacology;MicroRNAs/ antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Oligonucleotides/pharmacology;Promoter Regions, Genetic/genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor/genetics/ metabolism;Transforming Growth Factor beta1;Up-Regulation/drug effects/genetics;epidermal growth factor receptor;fibroblast;hyaluronan;microRNA-7;transforming growth factor-beta1;wound-healing
17beta-estradiol ameliorates age-associated loss of fibroblast function by attenuating IFN-gamma/STAT1-dependent miR-7 upregulation	A. C. Midgley, et al.	2016	26931423	Age-related defects in fibroblast differentiation and functionality were previously shown to be associated with impaired hyaluronan (HA) synthase 2 (HAS2) and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) function, as a result of upregulated microRNA-7 (miR-7) expression. In aging fibroblasts, inhibiting miR-7 prevented the dysregulation of the HA-mediated CD44/EGFR signaling pathway. Here, we investigated transcriptional upregulation of miR-7 and implicated the age-associated over-activation of JAK/STAT1 as a primary candidate. STAT1 binding sites were identified on the putative miR-7 promoter and stimulation of fibroblasts with the inflammatory cytokine, interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), significantly increased miR-7 transcriptional activity and resulted in upregulated miR-7 and loss of EGFR. Additionally, we demonstrated a role for the anti-inflammatory steroid, 17beta-estradiol (E2), in the attenuation of miR-7 expression. E2 stimulation promoted estrogen receptor (ER) interactions with the miR-7 putative promoter and suppressed miR-7 expression. E2 also attenuated STAT1 expression and activity. Furthermore, treatments with E2 restored fibroblast functionality, including proliferation, migration and differentiation, key events in effective wound healing. In light of our findings, we propose that the regulation of miR-7 by pro- and anti-inflammatory mediators plays a wider role than previously thought. The modulation of fibroblast functions and ultimately wound healing by miR-7 activators or inhibitors could provide realistic targets for the restoration of chronic wound healing capabilities in the elderly.	Animals;Base Sequence;Binding Sites/genetics;Cell Aging/ drug effects;Cell Differentiation/drug effects;Cell Migration Assays;Cell Proliferation/drug effects;Collagen/pharmacology;Estradiol/ pharmacology;Fibroblasts/drug effects/ metabolism;Gels/pharmacology;Inflammation Mediators/metabolism;Interferon-gamma/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Promoter Regions, Genetic;Protein Binding/drug effects;Rats;Receptors, Estrogen/metabolism;STAT1 Transcription Factor/ metabolism;Transcription, Genetic/drug effects;Transforming Growth Factor beta1/metabolism;Up-Regulation/ drug effects;17beta-estradiol;fibroblast;interferon-gamma;microRNA-7;myofibroblast;wound healing
MicroRNAs impair MET-mediated invasive growth	C. Migliore, et al.	2008	19074879	MicroRNAs (miRNA) are a recently identified class of noncoding, endogenous, small RNAs that regulate gene expression, mainly at the translational level. These molecules play critical roles in several biological processes, such as cell proliferation and differentiation, development, and aging. It is also known that miRNAs play a role in human cancers where they can act either as oncogenes, down-regulating tumor suppressor genes, or as onco-suppressors, targeting molecules critically involved in promotion of tumor growth. One of such molecules is the tyrosine kinase receptor for hepatocyte growth factor, encoded by the MET oncogene. The MET receptor promotes a complex biological program named "invasive growth" that results from stimulation of cell motility, invasion, and protection from apoptosis. This oncogene is deregulated in many human tumors, where its most frequent alteration is overexpression. In this work, we have identified three miRNAs (miR-34b, miR-34c, and miR-199a*) that negatively regulate MET expression. Inhibition of these endogenous miRNAs, by use of antagomiRs, resulted in increased expression of MET protein, whereas their exogenous expression in cancer cells blocked MET-induced signal transduction and the execution of the invasive growth program, both in cells expressing normal levels of MET and in cancer cells overexpressing a constitutively active MET. Moreover, we show that these same miRNAs play a role in regulating the MET-induced migratory ability of melanoma-derived primary cells. In conclusion, we have identified miRNAs that behave as oncosuppressors by negatively targeting MET and might thus provide an additional option to inhibit this oncogene in tumors displaying its deregulation.	3' Untranslated Regions;Animals;COS Cells;Cell Growth Processes/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cercopithecus aethiops;HT29 Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;Neoplasm Invasiveness;Neoplasms/enzymology/ genetics/pathology;Proto-Oncogene Proteins/ biosynthesis/genetics;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-met;RNA, Messenger/biosynthesis/genetics;Receptors, Growth Factor/ biosynthesis/genetics;Transfection
MicroRNAs, fibrotic remodeling, and aortic aneurysms	D. M. Milewicz	2012	22269322	Aortic aneurysms are a common clinical condition that can cause death due to aortic dissection or rupture. The association between aortic aneurysm pathogenesis and altered TGF-beta signaling has been the subject of numerous investigations. Recently, a TGF-beta-responsive microRNA (miR), miR-29, has been identified to play a role in cellular phenotypic modulation during aortic development and aging. In this issue of JCI, Maegdefessel and colleagues demonstrate that decreasing the levels of miR-29b in the aortic wall can attenuate aortic aneurysm progression in two different mouse models of abdominal aortic aneurysms. This study highlights the relevance of miR-29b in aortic disease but also raises questions about its specific role.	Aneurysm, Ruptured/ prevention & control;Animals;Aortic Aneurysm, Abdominal/ therapy;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ antagonists & inhibitors/ metabolism
The frontal cortex as a network hub controlling mood and cognition: Probing its neurochemical substrates for improved therapy of psychiatric and neurological disorders	M. J. Millan, et al.	2016	27756833	The highly-interconnected and neurochemically-rich frontal cortex plays a crucial role in the regulation of mood and cognition, domains disrupted in depression and other central nervous system disorders, and it is an important site of action for their therapeutic control. For improving our understanding of the function and dysfunction of the frontal cortex, and for identifying improved treatments, quantification of extracellular pools of neuromodulators by microdialysis in freely-moving rodents has proven indispensable. This approach has revealed a complex mesh of autoreceptor and heteroceptor interactions amongst monoaminergic pathways, and led from selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitors to novel classes of multi-target drugs for treating depression like the mixed alpha2-adrenoceptor/5-HT reuptake inhibitor, S35966, and the clinically-launched vortioxetine and vilazodone. Moreover, integration of non-monoaminergic actions resulted in the discovery and development of the innovative melatonin receptor agonist/5-HT2C receptor antagonist, Agomelatine. Melatonin levels, like those of corticosterone and the "social hormone", oxytocin, can now be quantified by microdialysis over the full 24 h daily cycle. Further, the introduction of procedures for measuring extracellular histamine and acetylcholine has provided insights into strategies for improving cognition by, for example, blockade of 5-HT6 and/or dopamine D3 receptors. The challenge of concurrently determining extracellular levels of GABA, glutamate, d-serine, glycine, kynurenate and other amino acids, and of clarifying their interactions with monoamines, has also been resolved. This has proven important for characterizing the actions of glycine reuptake inhibitors that indirectly augment transmission at N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors, and of "glutamatergic antidepressants" like ketamine, mGluR5 antagonists and positive modulators of AMPA receptors (including S47445). Most recently, quantification of the neurotoxic proteins Abeta42 and Tau has extended microdialysis studies to the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders, and another frontier currently being broached is microRNAs. The present article discusses the above themes, focusses on recent advances, highlights opportunities for clinical "translation", and suggests avenues for further progress.	Ampa;Alzheimer's;Gaba;Microdialysis;Nmda;Tau;antidepressant;antipsychotic;depression;frontal cortex;glutamate;ketamine;mGluR;monoamine;schizophrenia;beta-amyloid
Profile of microRNAs associated with aging in rat liver	S. Mimura, et al.	2014	25118807	Recent studies suggest that small noncoding microRNAs (miRNAs or miRs) play an important role in the regulation of genes involved in various cellular and developmental processes. However, the expression of miRNAs during the aging process remains largely unknown. The aim of the present study was to analyze miRNA expression profiles in rat livers during the aging process. The livers of male Wistar rats at different stages of development (fetal, aged 3 days, and 1, 2, 4, 8 and 36 weeks of age) were used. Total RNA was extracted from the livers. We analyzed the expression levels of 679 rat miRNA probes. In addition, immunohistochemical staining for proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) was performed. Several up- and downregulated miRNAs were identified in the rat livers at 7 different fetal developmental stages and at 36 weeks of age. We observed the upregulation of miR29a, miR29c, miR195 and miR497, whereas miR301a, miR148b-3p, miR7a, miR93, miR106b, miR185, miR450a, miR539 and miR301b were downregulated in the aging rat livers. The number of PCNA-positive hepatocytes was decreased with age. In conclusion, our findings suggest that these up- and downregulated miRNAs play an important role in aging by regulating cell cycles that are involved in liver senescence. Further investigation is required to reveal additional target genes of the miRNAs expressed in the liver and the roles of miRNAs in the developmental process of aging in the liver.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Blotting, Western;Chromosomes, Mammalian/metabolism;Cyclin D1/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Immunohistochemistry;Liver/ growth & development/ metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Proliferating Cell Nuclear Antigen/metabolism;Rats, Wistar
MicroRNA-146a-5p Limits Elevated TGF-beta Signal during Cell Senescence	S. K. Min, et al.	2017	28624209		
NAMPT regulates senescence, proliferation, and migration of endothelial progenitor cells through the SIRT1 AS lncRNA/miR-22/SIRT1 pathway	G. F. Ming, et al.	2016	27569277	The importance of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) in cardiovascular diseases has been demonstrated by numerous studies. Previous studies have shown that Nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT) plays a role in EPC development by regulating Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), but the specific mechanism has not yet been elucidated. After stimulating EPCs with NAMPT, expression of SIRT1 and SIRT1 antisense long non-coding RNA (AS lncRNA) was upregulated. Upon transfection of an SIRT1 AS lncRNA overexpression vector into EPCs, SIRT1 expression was upregulated. Upon transfection of a small interfering RNA (siRNA) that targets SIRT1 AS lncRNA along with NAMPT, SIRT1 AS lncRNA was downregulated and NAMPT-induced SIRT1 expression was reduced. We used software analyses and a dual-luciferase reporter assay to demonstrate that microRNA (miR)-22 regulated SIRT1 and SIRT1 AS lncRNA. Our data suggest that SIRT1 AS lncRNA relieves miR-22-induced SIRT1 downregulation by competitively sponging miR-22. By measuring EPC senescence, proliferation, and migration, we found that NAMPT inhibited EPC senescence through an SIRT1 AS lncRNA/miR-22/SIRT1 pathway and promoted EPC proliferation and migration. These findings provide a new theoretical basis for the prevention and treatment of atherosclerosis (AS) and other cardiovascular diseases.	Animals;Base Sequence;Cell Aging/ drug effects;Cell Movement/ drug effects;Cell Proliferation/drug effects;Endothelial Progenitor Cells/drug effects/ metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Nicotinamide Phosphoribosyltransferase/ pharmacology;RNA, Long Noncoding/genetics/ metabolism;Signal Transduction/ drug effects/genetics;Sirtuin 1/ metabolism;Up-Regulation/drug effects/genetics;Endothelial progenitor cells;Nampt;Sirt1;Senescence;lncRNA;miR-22
Upregulation of a small vault RNA (svtRNA2-1a) is an early event in Parkinson disease and induces neuronal dysfunction	E. Minones-Moyano, et al.	2013	23673382	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) and other small non-coding RNAs (sncRNAs) are post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression, playing key roles in neuronal development, plasticity, and disease. Transcriptome deregulation caused by miRNA dysfunction has been associated to neurodegenerative diseases. Parkinson disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease showing deregulation of the coding and small non-coding transcriptome. On profiling sncRNA in PD brain areas differently affected, we found that upregulation of a small vault RNA (svtRNA2-1a) is widespread in PD brains, occurring early in the course of the disease (at pre-motor stages). SvtRNA2-1a biogenesis was dependent on Dicer activity on its precursor (vtRNA2-1) but independent of Drosha endonuclease, unlike the canonical miRNAs. Although endogenous svtRNA2-1a was enriched in Ago-2 immunoprecipitates in differentiated SH-SY5Y neuronal cells, overexpression of svtRNA2-1a induced subtle transcriptomic changes, suggesting that gene expression regulation may involve other mechanisms than mRNA decay only. Function enrichment analysis of the genes deregulated by svtRNA2-1a overexpression or svtRNA2-1a predicted targets identified pathways related to nervous system development and cell type specification. The expression pattern of svtRNA2-1a during development and aging of the human brain and the detrimental consequences of a svtRNA2-1a mimic overexpression in neuronal cells further indicate that low svtRNA2-1a levels may be important for the maintenance of neurons. Our results suggest that early svtRNA2-1a upregulation in PD may contribute to perturbations of gene expression networks, underlying metabolic impairment and cell dysfunction. A better understanding of the pathways regulated by svtRNA2-a, and also the mechanisms regulating its expression should facilitate the identification of new targets for therapeutic approaches in PD.	Argonaute Proteins/metabolism;Base Sequence;Brain/metabolism;Cell Differentiation/genetics;Cell Line;Gene Expression;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Molecular Sequence Data;Neurons/cytology/ metabolism;Nucleic Acid Conformation;Open Reading Frames;Parkinson Disease/drug therapy/ genetics/ metabolism;RNA, Small Untranslated/chemistry/ genetics;Reproducibility of Results;Ribonuclease III/metabolism;Sequence Alignment;Transcriptome;Up-Regulation;lincRNAs;microarrays;neuronal dysfunction;parkinson disease;sncRNA
Changes in CDKN2D , TP53, and miR125a expression: potential role in the evaluation of human amniotic fluid-derived mesenchymal stromal cell fitness	J. M. Miranda-Sayago, et al.	2012	22747700	Human amniotic fluid-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (hAMSC) have become one of the main cell populations used in regenerative medicine and for the study of various clinical disorders. These cells have a great capacity for proliferation and differentiation and do not form teratomas when transplanted into animal models, and their stemness seems to be between embryonic cells and adult mesenchymal cells. Before their use in cell therapy, they must be cultured and expanded in vitro, but the effect this process has on their fitness, a determining factor for the success or failure of cell therapy, is unknown. We undertook a follow-up of gene and microRNAs (miRNAs) expression using microarray of hAMSC for the first 15 passages. Significant changes were noted in the expression of various mRNAs and miRNAs, particularly down-regulation of TP53, increased expression of hsa-miR-125a and up-regulation of CDKN2D . The variations in TP53 and hsa-miR-125a may act as an indicator of the stemness of the hAMSC, whereas CDKN2D may indicate the begging of early senescence process in a p53-independent mechanism. The genes described in this study will help evaluate the fitness of hAMSC, thus guaranteeing their biological quality for use in regenerative medicine.	Amniotic Fluid/ cytology/metabolism;Cell Adhesion;Cell Differentiation;Cell Proliferation;Cell Survival;Cells, Cultured;Computational Biology/methods;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p19/genetics/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/cytology/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Regenerative Medicine/methods;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/ metabolism
Laquinimod reduces neuroaxonal injury through inhibiting microglial activation	M. K. Mishra, et al.	2014	25356411	OBJECTIVE: Laquinimod is an emerging oral medication for multiple sclerosis (MS) that reduces brain atrophy and progression of disability in two Phase III clinical trials. The mechanism of these effects is unclear. Persistent activation of microglia occurs in MS and contributes to injury. Thus, we investigated whether laquinimod alters properties of microglia in culture and in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), and whether this reduces neurodegeneration. METHODS: Microglia were cultured from human brains. EAE was induced in mice. RESULTS: The activation of human microglia increased levels of several pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines and these elevations were attenuated by pretreatment with laquinimod. Laquinimod prevented the decline in activated microglia of miR124a, a microRNA implicated in maintaining microglia quiescence, and reduced the activity of several signaling pathways (Jun-N-terminal kinase, ribosomal S6 kinase, and AKT/protein kinase B) in activated microglia. In EAE, axonal injury correlated with accumulation of microglia/macrophages in the spinal cord. EAE mice treated with laquinimod before onset of clinical signs subsequently had reduced microglia/macrophage density and axonal injury. Remarkably, when laquinimod treatment was initiated well into the disease course, the progressive demyelination, and axonal loss was halted. Besides inflammatory molecules associated with microglia, the level of inducible nitric oxide (NO) synthase capable of producing free radical toxicity was attenuated by laquinimod in EAE mice. Finally, in coculture where microglia activation caused neuronal death, laquinimod decreased NO levels, and neurotoxicity. INTERPRETATION: Laquinimod is a novel inhibitor of microglial activation that lowers microglia-induced neuronal death in culture and axonal injury/loss in EAE.	
Epigenetic dimension of oxygen radical injury in spermatogonial epithelial cells	P. K. Mishra, et al.	2015	25687723	The present work reports a direct role of mitochondrial oxidative stress induced aberrant chromatin regulation, as a central phenomenon, to perturbed genomic integrity in the testicular milieu. Oxygen-radical injury following N-succinimidyl N-methylcarbamate treatment in mouse spermatogonial epithelial (GC-1 spg) cells induced functional derailment of mitochondrial machinery. Mitophagy resulted in marked inhibition of mitochondrial respiration and reduced mtDNA copy number. Impaired cell cycle progression along with altered H3K9me1, H4K20me3, H3, AcH3 and uH2A histone modifications were observed in the treated cells. Dense heterochromatin foci and aberrant expression of HP1alpha in nuclei of treated cells implied onset of senescence associated secretory phenotype mediated through nuclear accumulation of NF-kappaB. Neoplastic nature of daughter clones, emerged from senescent mother phenotypes was confirmed by cytogenetic instability, aberrant let-7a and let-7b miRNA expression and anchorage independent growth. Together, our results provide the first insights of redox-dependent epigenomic imbalance in spermatogonia, a previously unknown molecular paradigm.	Animals;Antioxidants;Carbamates/toxicity;Cell Line;Cell Nucleus/metabolism;DNA Damage;DNA, Mitochondrial/analysis;Epigenesis, Genetic/ drug effects;Epithelial Cells/ drug effects;Histone Code/drug effects;Male;Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial/drug effects;Mice;Microsatellite Instability;Mitochondria/chemistry/enzymology;NF-kappa B/metabolism;Oxidative Stress;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism/ toxicity;Spermatogonia/ drug effects/ultrastructure;DNA methylation;Histone modifications;Isocyanate toxicity;Mitochondria;Senescence;miRNA
MicroRNA-140 plays dual roles in both cartilage development and homeostasis	S. Miyaki, et al.	2010	20466812	Osteoarthritis (OA), the most prevalent aging-related joint disease, is characterized by insufficient extracellular matrix synthesis and articular cartilage degradation, mediated by several proteinases, including Adamts-5. miR-140 is one of a very limited number of noncoding microRNAs (miRNAs) specifically expressed in cartilage; however, its role in development and/or tissue maintenance is largely uncharacterized. To examine miR-140 function in tissue development and homeostasis, we generated a mouse line through a targeted deletion of miR-140. miR-140(-/-) mice manifested a mild skeletal phenotype with a short stature, although the structure of the articular joint cartilage appeared grossly normal in 1-mo-old miR-140(-/-) mice. Interestingly, miR-140(-/-) mice showed age-related OA-like changes characterized by proteoglycan loss and fibrillation of articular cartilage. Conversely, transgenic (TG) mice overexpressing miR-140 in cartilage were resistant to antigen-induced arthritis. OA-like changes in miR-140-deficient mice can be attributed, in part, to elevated Adamts-5 expression, regulated directly by miR-140. We show that miR-140 regulates cartilage development and homeostasis, and its loss contributes to the development of age-related OA-like changes.	ADAM Proteins/metabolism;ADAMTS5 Protein;Animals;Bone Development/genetics;Cartilage/ growth & development;Homeostasis/genetics/ physiology;Knee Joint/pathology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Knockout;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Osteoarthritis/pathology
CNTFR Genotype and Sprint/power Performance: Case-control Association and Functional Studies	E. Miyamoto-Mikami, et al.	2016	26837930	The aim of this study was to investigate whether rs41274853 in the 3'-untranslated region of the ciliary neurotrophic factor receptor gene (CNTFR) is associated with elite sprint/power athletic status and assess its functional significance. A total of 211 Japanese sprint/power track and field athletes (62 international, 72 national, and 77 regional athletes) and 814 Japanese controls were genotyped at rs41274853. Luciferase reporter assay was conducted to investigate whether this C-to-T polymorphism affects binding of microRNA miR-675-5p to this region. The TT genotype was significantly more frequent among international sprint/power athletes (19.4%) than in the controls after Bonferroni correction (7.9%, P=0.036, OR=2.81 [95% CI: 1.43-5.55]). Furthermore, in non-athletic young/middle-aged men (n=132), TT genotype carriers exhibited significantly greater leg extension power (26.6+/-5.4 vs. 24.0+/-5.4 W/kg BW, P=0.019) and vertical jump performance (50.1+/-6.9 vs. 47.9+/-7.5 cm, P=0.047) than the CC+CT genotype carriers. Reporter assays revealed that the miR-675-5p binds to this polymorphic region within the CNTFR mRNA, irrespective of the rs41274853 allele present. Although the functional significance of the rs41274853 polymorphism remains unclear, the CNTFR is one of the candidate genes contributing to sprint/power performance.	Adult;Aged;Asian Continental Ancestry Group;Athletes;Athletic Performance/ physiology;Ciliary Neurotrophic Factor Receptor alpha Subunit/ genetics;Female;Gene Frequency;Genotype;Humans;Japan;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics;Middle Aged;Muscle Strength;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Running/ physiology;Track and Field
MicroRNA Library-Based Functional Screening Identified Androgen-Sensitive miR-216a as a Player in Bicalutamide Resistance in Prostate Cancer	T. Miyazaki, et al.	2015	26506397	Prostate cancer is a major hormone-dependent tumor affecting men, and is often treated by hormone therapy at the primary stages. Despite its initial efficiency, the disease eventually acquires resistance, resulting in the recurrence of castration-resistant prostate cancer. Recent studies suggest that dysregulation of microRNA (miRNA) function is one of the mechanisms underlying hormone therapy resistance. Identification of critical miRNAs involved in endocrine resistance will therefore be important for developing therapeutic targets for prostate cancer. In the present study, we performed an miRNA library screening to identify anti-androgen bicalutamide resistance-related miRNAs in prostate cancer LNCaP cells. Cells were infected with a lentiviral miRNA library and subsequently maintained in media containing either bicalutamide or vehicle for a month. Microarray analysis determined the amounts of individual miRNA precursors and identified 2 retained miRNAs after one-month bicalutamide treatment. Of these, we further characterized miR-216a, because its function in prostate cancer remains unknown. miR-216a could be induced by dihydrotestosterone in LNCaP cells and ectopic expression of miR-216a inhibited bicalutamide-mediated growth suppression of LNCaP cells. Furthermore, a microarray dataset revealed that the expression levels of miR-216a were significantly higher in clinical prostate cancer than in benign samples. These results suggest that functional screening using an miRNA expression library could be useful for identifying novel miRNAs that contribute to bicalutamide resistance in prostate cancer.	androgen;hormone therapy resistance;microRNA;prostate cancer
Expression patterns of the chromosome 21 MicroRNA cluster (miR-99a, miR-125b and let-7c) in chorioamniotic membranes	B. P. Modi, et al.	2017	28012448	Trisomy 21 (T21) is the most common chromosome abnormality in humans and is associated with a spectrum of phenotypes, including cognitive impairment, congenital heart defects and immune system defects. In addition, T21 is also associated with abnormalities of fetal membranes including chorioamniotic separation, delayed fusion of the chorioamniotic membranes, defects in syncytiotrophoblast formation, as well as amniocyte senescence. There is evidence indicating miRNAs encoded by sequences on chromosome 21 (Chr-21) are involved in several of the cognitive and neurological phenotypes of T21, but the role of Chr-21 derived miRNAs in fetal membrane abnormalities associated with T21 has not been investigated. In the current study, we determined the expression patterns of three miRNAs derived from a cluster on Chr-21 - hsa-miR-99a, hsa-miR-125b and hsa-let-7c in chorioamniotic membranes obtained from term pregnancies with spontaneous rupture (n = 20). Tissue and location specific expression patterns within the chorioamniotic membranes were identified. The rupture zone in the choriodecidua had distinct expression patterns compared to other fetal membrane locations. Despite the increased gene dosage associated with T21, the expression of all three miRNAs was reduced in cultured T21 amniocytes as compared to cultured euploid amniocytes. In silico analysis of experimentally validated targets of the three miRNAs suggest these Chr-21 derived miRNAs play a potential role in fetal membrane rupture and the fetal membrane defects associated with T21.	Amnion;Choriodecidua;Hsa-let-7c;Hsa-miR-125b;Hsa-miR-99a;Trisomy-21
Regulation of Neuronal Cell Cycle and Apoptosis by MicroRNA 34a	P. K. Modi, et al.	2016	26459758	The cell cycle of neurons remains suppressed to maintain the state of differentiation and aberrant cell cycle reentry results in loss of neurons, which is a feature in neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer's disease (AD). Present studies revealed that the expression of microRNA 34a (miR-34a) needs to be optimal in neurons, as an aberrant increase or decrease in its expression causes apoptosis. miR-34a keeps the neuronal cell cycle under check by preventing the expression of cyclin D1 and promotes cell cycle arrest. Neurotoxic amyloid beta1-42 peptide (Abeta42) treatment of cortical neurons suppressed miR-34a, resulting in unscheduled cell cycle reentry, which resulted in apoptosis. The repression of miR-34a was a result of degradation of TAp73, which was mediated by aberrant activation of the MEK extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) pathway by Abeta42. A significant decrease in miR-34a and TAp73 was observed in the cortex of a transgenic (Tg) mouse model of AD, which correlated well with cell cycle reentry observed in the neurons of these animals. Importantly, the overexpression of TAp73alpha and miR-34a reversed cell cycle-related neuronal apoptosis (CRNA). These studies provide novel insights into how modulation of neuronal cell cycle machinery may lead to neurodegeneration and may contribute to the understanding of disorders like AD.	Alzheimer Disease/metabolism;Animals;Apoptosis/ genetics;Cell Cycle/ genetics;Cell Differentiation/ genetics;Cell Division/physiology;Cells, Cultured;Disease Models, Animal;Extracellular Signal-Regulated MAP Kinases/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neurons/ metabolism;Rats, Sprague-Dawley
Comment on "Increased MKK4 abundance with replicative senescence is linked to the joint reduction of multiple microRNAs"	U. Moens, et al.	2010	20647589	Marasa et al. (Research Article, 27 October 2009, DOI: 10.1126/scisignal.2000442) reported that the human kinase p38-regulated/activated protein kinase (PRAK) was phosphorylated on residue Ser(93) in senescent cells. We have been unable to detect phosphorylation at this site with the antibody that they used, and the commercial supplier of this antibody has discontinued its availability, which casts doubt on whether this residue of PRAK is phosphorylated.	Amino Acid Sequence;Antibodies/immunology/ metabolism;Biotechnology;Blotting, Western;Cell Line;Humans;Intracellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins/genetics/immunology/ metabolism;MAP Kinase Kinase 4/genetics/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Phosphorylation;Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases/genetics/immunology/ metabolism;Sequence Alignment
miR-204 downregulates EphB2 in aging mouse hippocampal neurons	C. P. Mohammed, et al.	2016	26799631	Hippocampal synaptic function and plasticity deteriorate with age, often resulting in learning and memory deficits. As MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are important regulators of neuronal protein expression, we examined whether miRNAs may contribute to this age-associated decline in hippocampal function. We first compared the small RNA transcriptome of hippocampal tissues from young and old mice. Among 269 hippocampal miRNAs, 80 were differentially expressed (>/= twofold) among the age groups. We focused on 36 miRNAs upregulated in the old mice compared with those in the young mice. The potential targets of these 36 miRNAs included 11 critical Eph/Ephrin synaptic signaling components. The expression levels of several genes in the Eph/Ephrin pathway, including EphB2, were significantly downregulated in the aged hippocampus. EphB2 is a known regulator of synaptic plasticity in hippocampal neurons, in part by regulating the surface expression of the NMDA receptor NR1 subunit. We found that EphB2 is a direct target of miR-204 among miRNAs that were upregulated with age. The transfection of primary hippocampal neurons with a miR-204 mimic suppressed both EphB2 mRNA and protein expression and reduced the surface expression of NR1. Transfection of miR-204 also decreased the total expression of NR1. miR-204 induces senescence-like phenotype in fully matured neurons as evidenced by an increase in p16-positive cells. We suggest that aging is accompanied by the upregulation of miR-204 in the hippocampus, which downregulates EphB2 and results in reduced surface and total NR1 expression. This mechanism may contribute to age-associated decline in hippocampal synaptic plasticity and the related cognitive functions.	Aging/genetics/ metabolism;Animals;Down-Regulation;Hippocampus/cytology/ metabolism;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/genetics/ metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Neuronal Plasticity;Neurons/cytology/ metabolism;Receptor, EphB2/genetics/ metabolism;Receptors, N-Methyl-D-Aspartate/genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction;EphB2;NMDA receptor;aging;hippocampus;miRNA204
Probable impact of age and hypoxia on proliferation and microRNA expression profile of bone marrow-derived human mesenchymal stem cells	N. Mohd Ali, et al.	2016	26788424	Decline in the therapeutic potential of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) is often seen with older donors as compared to young. Although hypoxia is known as an approach to improve the therapeutic potential of MSC in term of cell proliferation and differentiation capacity, its effects on MSC from aged donors have not been well studied. To evaluate the influence of hypoxia on different age groups, MSC from young (<30 years) and aged (>60 years) donors were expanded under hypoxic (5% O2) and normal (20% O2) culture conditions. MSC from old donors exhibited a reduction in proliferation rate and differentiation potential together with the accumulation of senescence features compared to that of young donors. However, MSC cultured under hypoxic condition showed enhanced self-renewing and proliferation capacity in both age groups as compared to normal condition. Bioinformatic analysis of the gene ontology (GO) and KEGG pathway under hypoxic culture condition identified hypoxia-inducible miRNAs that were found to target transcriptional activity leading to enhanced cell proliferation, migration as well as decrease in growth arrest and apoptosis through the activation of multiple signaling pathways. Overall, differentially expressed miRNA provided additional information to describe the biological changes of young and aged MSCs expansion under hypoxic culture condition at the molecular level. Based on our findings, the therapeutic potential hierarchy of MSC according to donor's age group and culture conditions can be categorized in the following order: young (hypoxia) > young (normoxia) > old aged (hypoxia) > old aged (normoxia).	Age;Bone-marrow;Differentiation;Hypoxia;Mesenchymal stem cells;MicroRNA;Next generation sequencing;Proliferation
The miR-15/107 Family of microRNA Genes Regulates CDK5R1/p35 with Implications for Alzheimer's Disease Pathogenesis	S. Moncini, et al.	2016	27343180	Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 regulatory subunit 1 (CDK5R1) encodes p35, the main activatory subunit of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5). The p35/CDK5 active complex plays a fundamental role in brain development and functioning, but its deregulated activity has also been implicated in various neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). CDK5R1 displays a large and highly evolutionarily conserved 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR), a fact that has suggested a role for this region in the post-transcriptional control of CDK5R1 expression. Our group has recently demonstrated that two miRNAs, miR-103 and miR-107, regulate CDK5R1 expression and affect the levels of p35. MiR-103 and miR-107 belong to the miR-15/107 family, a group of evolutionarily conserved miRNAs highly expressed in human cerebral cortex. In this work, we tested the hypothesis that other members of this group of miRNAs, in addition to miR-103 and miR-107, were able to modulate CDK5R1 expression. We provide evidence that several miRNAs belonging to the miR-15/107 family regulate p35 levels. BACE1 expression levels were also found to be modulated by different members of this family. Furthermore, overexpression of these miRNAs led to reduced APP phosphorylation levels at the CDK5-specific Thr668 residue. We also show that miR-15/107 miRNAs display reduced expression levels in hippocampus and temporal cortex, but not in cerebellum, of AD brains. Moreover, increased CDK5R1 mRNA levels were observed in AD hippocampus tissues. Our results suggest that the downregulation of the miR-15/107 family might have a role in the pathogenesis of AD by increasing the levels of CDK5R1/p35 and consequently enhancing CDK5 activity.	Alzheimer's disease;Cdk5;CDK5R1/p35;Post-transcriptional regulation;miR-15/107
A genome-wide survey for prion-regulated miRNAs associated with cholesterol homeostasis	J. Montag, et al.	2012	22985096	BACKGROUND: Prion diseases are neurodegenerative diseases that are characterized by the conversion of the cellular prion protein (PrPc) into a pathogenic isoform (PrPSc). It is known that neurodegeneration is often accompanied by the disturbance of cholesterol homeostasis. We have recently identified a set of genes that were upregulated after prion infection of N2a neuronal cells (Bach et al., 2009). RESULTS: We have now used ultra-deep sequencing technology to profile all microRNAs (miRNA) that could be associated with this effect in these N2a cells. Using stringent filters and normalization strategies we identified a small set of miRNAs that were up- or downregulated upon prion infection. Using bioinformatic tools we predicted whether the downregulated miRNAs could target mRNAs that have been previously identified to enhance cholesterol synthesis in these cells. Application of this joint profiling approach revealed that nine miRNAs potentially target cholesterol-related genes. Four of those miRNAs are localized in a miRNA-dense cluster on the mouse X-chromosome. Among these, twofold downregulation of mmu-miR-351 and mmu-miR-542-5p was confirmed by qRT-PCR. The same miRNAs were predicted as putative regulators of the sterol regulatory element-binding factor 2 (Srebf2), the low-density lipoprotein receptor (Ldlr) or the IPP isomerase. CONCLUSIONS: The results demonstrate that joined profiling by ultra-deep sequencing is highly valuable to identify candidate miRNAs involved in prion-induced dysregulation of cholesterol homeostasis.	Animals;Cell Line;Cholesterol/ metabolism;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Homeostasis/genetics;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Prions/ genetics/metabolism;Protein Isoforms/ genetics
Upregulation of miRNA hsa-miR-342-3p in experimental and idiopathic prion disease	J. Montag, et al.	2009	19712440	The aim of our study was to analyze the differential expression of miRNAs in the brains of BSE-infected cynomolgus macaques as a model for Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD). MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs regulating gene expression by mRNA targeting. Among other functions they contribute to neuronal development and survival. Recently, the lack of miRNA processing has been shown to promote neurodegeneration and deregulation of several miRNAs has been reported to be associated with Scrapie in mice. Therefore, we hypothesized that miRNAs are also regulated in response to human prion disease. We have applied miRNA-microarrays to identify deregulated miRNA candidates in brains of BSE-infected macaques. Shock-frozen brain sections of six BSE-infected and five non-infected macaques were used to validate regulated miRNA candidates by two independent qRT-PCR-based methods. Our study revealed significant upregulation of hsa-miR-342-3p and hsa-miR-494 in the brains of BSE-infected macaques compared to non-infected animals. In a pilot study we could show that hsa-miR-342-3p was also upregulated in brain samples of human type 1 and type 2 sporadic CJD. With respect to the reported regulation of this miRNA in Scrapie-infected mice, we propose that upregulation of hsa-miR-342-3p may be a general phenomenon in late stage prion disease and might be used as a novel marker for animal and human TSEs.	
MiR-21 is an Ngf-modulated microRNA that supports Ngf signaling and regulates neuronal degeneration in PC12 cells	E. Montalban, et al.	2014	24492999	The neurotrophins Ngf, Bdnf, NT-3, NT4-5 have key roles in development, survival, and plasticity of neuronal cells. Their action involves broad gene expression changes at the level of transcription and translation. MicroRNAs (miRs)-small RNA molecules that control gene expression post-transcriptionally-are increasingly implicated in regulating development and plasticity of neural cells. Using PC12 cells as a model system, we show that Ngf modulates changes in expression of a variety of microRNAs, including miRs known to be modulated by neurotrophins-such as the miR-212/132 cluster-and several others, such as miR-21, miR-29c, miR-30c, miR-93, miR-103, miR-207, miR-691, and miR-709. Pathway analysis indicates that Ngf-modulated miRs may regulate many protein components of signaling pathways involved in neuronal development and disease. In particular, we show that miR-21 enhances neurotrophin signaling and controls neuronal differentiation induced by Ngf. Notably, in a situation mimicking neurodegeneration-differentiated neurons deprived of Ngf-this microRNA is able to preserve the neurite network and to support viability of the neurons. These findings uncover a broad role of microRNAs in regulating neurotrophin signaling and suggest that aberrant expression of one or more Ngf-modulated miRs may be involved in neurodegenerative diseases.	Animals;Cyclic AMP Response Element-Binding Protein/physiology;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/genetics/ physiology;Nerve Growth Factor/ physiology;Neurites/ultrastructure;Neurodegenerative Diseases/genetics/metabolism;Neurogenesis/physiology;Neurons/metabolism/ pathology;PC12 Cells;RNA, Neoplasm/biosynthesis/genetics;Rats;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction/genetics/physiology
Early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease from elevated olfactory mucosal miR-206 level	J. Moon, et al.	2016	26842588	MicroRNA-206, which suppresses the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor, is known to be elevated in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. We performed intranasal biopsy of the olfactory epithelia of early dementia patients (n = 24) and cognitively healthy controls (n = 9). Patients with significant depression (n = 8) were analyzed separately, as their cognitive impairments were thought to be caused by their depression. Real-time PCR was performed on the biopsied tissues. The relative microRNA-206 level exhibited a 7.8-fold increase (P = 0.004) in the mild cognitive impairment group (CDR 0.5; n = 13) and a 41.5-fold increase (P < 0.001) in the CDR 1 group (n = 11). However, this level was not increased in the depression group, even in those with cognitive decline. Using the optimal cutoff value, the sensitivity/specificity for diagnosing CDR 0.5 and CDR 1 dementia were 87.5%/94.1% and 90.9%/93.3%, respectively. In ROC analysis, the AUCs were 0.942 and 0.976 in the CDR 0.5 and CDR 1 groups, respectively. The olfactory mucosal microRNA-206 level and cognitive assessment scores were significantly correlated in the non-depressed subjects with cognitive impairment. In conclusion, the olfactory mucosal microRNA-206 level can be easily measured, and it can be utilized as an excellent biomarker for the diagnosis of early AD, including mild cognitive impairment.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ diagnosis/genetics/metabolism;Area Under Curve;Biomarkers/metabolism;Case-Control Studies;Cognition Disorders/complications;Early Diagnosis;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Olfactory Mucosa/ metabolism/pathology;ROC Curve;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction
Role of microRNA processing in adipose tissue in stress defense and longevity	M. A. Mori, et al.	2012	22958919	Excess adipose tissue is associated with metabolic disease and reduced life span, whereas caloric restriction decreases these risks. Here we show that as mice age, there is downregulation of Dicer and miRNA processing in adipose tissue resulting in decreases of multiple miRNAs. A similar decline of Dicer with age is observed in C. elegans. This is prevented in both species by caloric restriction. Decreased Dicer expression also occurs in preadipocytes from elderly humans and can be produced in cells by exposure to oxidative stress or UV radiation. Knockdown of Dicer in cells results in premature senescence, and fat-specific Dicer knockout renders mice hypersensitive to oxidative stress. Finally, Dicer loss-of-function mutations in worms reduce life span and stress tolerance, while intestinal overexpression of Dicer confers stress resistance. Thus, regulation of miRNA processing in adipose-related tissues plays an important role in longevity and the ability of an organism to respond to environmental stress and age-related disease.	Adipose Tissue/ metabolism;Aging/ metabolism;Animals;Biological Evolution;Caenorhabditis elegans;Cell Culture Techniques;DNA Primers/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic/ physiology;Humans;Longevity/genetics/ physiology;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Oxidative Stress/ genetics;Ribonuclease III/genetics/ metabolism
The ctenophore genome and the evolutionary origins of neural systems	L. L. Moroz, et al.	2014	24847885	The origins of neural systems remain unresolved. In contrast to other basal metazoans, ctenophores (comb jellies) have both complex nervous and mesoderm-derived muscular systems. These holoplanktonic predators also have sophisticated ciliated locomotion, behaviour and distinct development. Here we present the draft genome of Pleurobrachia bachei, Pacific sea gooseberry, together with ten other ctenophore transcriptomes, and show that they are remarkably distinct from other animal genomes in their content of neurogenic, immune and developmental genes. Our integrative analyses place Ctenophora as the earliest lineage within Metazoa. This hypothesis is supported by comparative analysis of multiple gene families, including the apparent absence of HOX genes, canonical microRNA machinery, and reduced immune complement in ctenophores. Although two distinct nervous systems are well recognized in ctenophores, many bilaterian neuron-specific genes and genes of 'classical' neurotransmitter pathways either are absent or, if present, are not expressed in neurons. Our metabolomic and physiological data are consistent with the hypothesis that ctenophore neural systems, and possibly muscle specification, evolved independently from those in other animals.	Animals;Ctenophora/classification/ genetics/immunology/physiology;Evolution, Molecular;Genes, Developmental;Genes, Homeobox;Genome/ genetics;Mesoderm/metabolism;Metabolomics;MicroRNAs;Molecular Sequence Data;Muscles/physiology;Nervous System/metabolism;Neurons/metabolism;Neurotransmitter Agents;Phylogeny;Transcriptome/genetics
Peripubertal Stress With Social Support Promotes Resilience in the Face of Aging	K. E. Morrison, et al.	2016	26943365	The peripubertal period of development is a sensitive window, during which adverse experiences can increase the risk for presentation of cognitive and affective dysfunction throughout the lifespan, especially in women. However, such experiences in the context of a supportive social environment can actually ameliorate this risk, suggesting that resilience can be programmed in early life. Affective disorders and cognitive deficits commonly emerge during aging, with many women reporting increased difficulty with prefrontal cortex (PFC)-dependent executive functions. We have developed a mouse model to examine the interaction between peripubertal experience and age-related changes in cognition and stress regulation. Female mice were exposed to peripubertal chronic stress, during which they were either individually housed or housed with social interaction. One year after this stress experience, mice were examined in tasks to access their cognitive ability and flexibility in stress reactive measures. In a test of spatial memory acquisition and reversal learning where aged females normally display a decreased performance, the females that had experienced stress with social interaction a year earlier showed improved performance in reversal learning, a measure of cognitive flexibility. Because peripuberty is a time of major PFC maturation, we performed transcriptomic and biochemical analysis of the aged PFC, in which long-term changes in microRNA expression and in myelin proteins were found. These data suggest that stress in the context of social support experienced over the pubertal window can promote epigenetic reprogramming in the brain to increase the resilience to age-related cognitive decline in females.	Aging/ psychology;Animals;Behavior, Animal/physiology;Cognition/ physiology;Corticosterone/blood;Estradiol/blood;Female;Mice;Models, Animal;Myelin Proteins/metabolism;Prefrontal Cortex/ metabolism;Restraint, Physical;Reversal Learning/ physiology;Social Behavior;Social Environment;Spatial Memory/ physiology;Stress, Psychological/metabolism/ psychology
Mutational Analysis of Pre-miR-184 and hsa-mir-568 in Greek Patients With Sporadic Keratoconus	M. M. Moschos, et al.	2016	26845316	PURPOSE: Despite numerous studies, the causes of keratoconus (KC) remain indefinable. Recently, polymorphisms in the seed region of miR-184 have been identified in familial severe KC and stromal thinning (endothelial dystrophy, iris hypoplasia, congenital cataract, and stromal thinning [EDICT]) syndrome. In this study, we conducted genotyping of microRNA genes localized in the reported KC loci, in a well-defined cohort of Greek sporadic KC patients. METHODS: A case-control panel with 61 KC patients and 120 healthy controls was surveyed. DNA from each individual was genotyped for the rs41280052, located within the pre-miR-184 sequence, and hsa-mir-568 rs149509568 polymorphisms, by allele-specific polymerase chain reaction and direct sequencing. RESULTS: Regarding rs41280052, no significant association with KC was observed. The T allele of the rs41280052 was present in 5.74% of KC patients and in 8.75% of healthy controls [P = 1.00, odds ratio (OR): 1.82, 95% confidence interval: 0.11-29.66]. However, the minus allele (G) of the rs149509568 polymorphism was found to be overrepresented in KC patients (P = 0.04, odds ratio: 5.08, 95% confidence interval: 0.97-26.61). CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrated a significant association between sporadic KC and hsa-mir-568 rs149509568 polymorphism, suggesting a potential role of the has-mir-568 in KC pathogenesis.	Adult;Case-Control Studies;DNA Mutational Analysis;Genotyping Techniques;Greece;Humans;Keratoconus/diagnosis/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Polymerase Chain Reaction;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Young Adult
Next Generation Sequencing of miRNAs - Strategies, Resources and Methods	S. Motameny, et al.	2010	24710011	miRNAs constitute a family of small RNA species that have been demonstrated to play a central role in regulating gene expression in many organisms. With the advent of next generation sequencing, new opportunities have arisen to identify and quantify miRNAs and elucidate their function. The unprecedented sequencing depth reached by next generation sequencing technologies makes it possible to get a comprehensive miRNA landscape but also poses new challenges for data analysis. We provide an overview of strategies used for miRNA sequencing, public miRNA resources, and useful methods and tools that are available for data analysis.	
An essential role for Dicer in adipocyte differentiation	R. Mudhasani, et al.	2010	20564208	Dicer is a cellular enzyme required for the processing of pre-miRNA molecules into mature miRNA, and Dicer and miRNA biogenesis have been found to play important roles in a variety of physiologic processes. Recently, reports of alterations in miRNA expression levels in cultured pre-adipogenic cell lines during differentiation and findings of differences between the miRNA expression signatures of white and brown adipose have suggested that miRNA molecules might regulate adipocyte differentiation and the formation of adipose tissue. However, direct evidence that miRNAs regulate adipogenesis is lacking. To determine if Dicer and mature miRNA govern adipocyte differentiation, we utilized primary cells isolated from mice bearing Dicer-conditional alleles to study adipogenesis in the presence or absence of miRNA biogenesis. Our results reveal that Dicer is required for adipogenic differentiation of mouse embryonic fibroblasts and primary cultures of pre-adipocytes. Furthermore, the requirement for Dicer in adipocyte differentiation is not due to miRNA-mediated alterations in cell proliferation, as deletion of the Ink4a locus and the prevention of premature cellular senescence normally induced in primary cells upon Dicer ablation fails to rescue adipogenic differentiation in fibroblasts and pre-adipocytes.	Adipocytes/ cytology;Animals;Cell Differentiation/ physiology;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/ physiology;Embryo, Mammalian/cytology;Endoribonucleases/ physiology;Fibroblasts/cytology;Mice;Polymerase Chain Reaction;Ribonuclease III
Loss of miRNA biogenesis induces p19Arf-p53 signaling and senescence in primary cells	R. Mudhasani, et al.	2008	18591425	Dicer, an enzyme involved in microRNA (miRNA) maturation, is required for proper cell differentiation and embryogenesis in mammals. Recent evidence indicates that Dicer and miRNA may also regulate tumorigenesis. To better characterize the role of miRNA in primary cell growth, we generated Dicer-conditional mice. Ablation of Dicer and loss of mature miRNAs in embryonic fibroblasts up-regulated p19(Arf) and p53 levels, inhibited cell proliferation, and induced a premature senescence phenotype that was also observed in vivo after Dicer ablation in the developing limb and in adult skin. Furthermore, deletion of the Ink4a/Arf or p53 locus could rescue fibroblasts from premature senescence induced by Dicer ablation. Although levels of Ras and Myc oncoproteins appeared unaltered, loss of Dicer resulted in increased DNA damage and p53 activity in these cells. These results reveal that loss of miRNA biogenesis activates a DNA damage checkpoint, up-regulates p19(Arf)-p53 signaling, and induces senescence in primary cells.	Animals;Cell Aging;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p16/ metabolism;DNA Damage;Embryo, Mammalian/cytology/enzymology;Fibroblasts/ cytology/enzymology/ metabolism;Gene Deletion;Mice;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Ribonuclease III/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ metabolism
Different molecular and structural adaptations with eccentric and conventional strength training in elderly men and women	M. Mueller, et al.	2011	21311168	Reprogramming of gene expression contributes to structural and functional adaptation of muscle tissue in response to altered use. The aim of this study was to investigate mechanisms for observed improvements in leg extension strength, gain in relative thigh muscle mass and loss of body and thigh fat content in response to eccentric and conventional strength training in elderly men (n = 14) and women (n = 14; average age of the men and women: 80.1 +/- 3.7 years) by means of structural and molecular analyses. Biopsies were collected from m. vastus lateralis in the resting state before and after 12 weeks of training with two weekly resistance exercise sessions (RET) or eccentric ergometer sessions (EET). Gene expression was analyzed using custom-designed low-density PCR arrays. Muscle ultrastructure was evaluated using EM morphometry. Gain in thigh muscle mass was paralleled by an increase in muscle fiber cross-sectional area (hypertrophy) with RET but not with EET, where muscle growth is likely occurring by the addition of sarcomeres in series or by hyperplasia. The expression of transcripts encoding factors involved in muscle growth, repair and remodeling (e.g., IGF-1, HGF, MYOG, MYH3) was increased to a larger extent after EET than RET. MicroRNA 1 expression was decreased independent of the training modality, and was paralleled by an increased expression of IGF-1 representing a potential target. IGF-1 is a potent promoter of muscle growth, and its regulation by microRNA 1 may have contributed to the gain of muscle mass observed in our subjects. EET depressed genes encoding mitochondrial and metabolic transcripts. The changes of several metabolic and mitochondrial transcripts correlated significantly with changes in mitochondrial volume density. Intramyocellular lipid content was decreased after EET concomitantly with total body fat. Changes in intramyocellular lipid content correlated with changes in body fat content with both RET and EET. In the elderly, RET and EET lead to distinct molecular and structural adaptations which might contribute to the observed small quantitative differences in functional tests and body composition parameters. EET seems to be particularly convenient for the elderly with regard to improvements in body composition and strength but at the expense of reducing muscular oxidative capacity.	Adaptation, Physiological;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ genetics/pathology/ physiology;Biopsy;Female;Gene Expression;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Muscle Strength/physiology;Muscle, Skeletal/ultrastructure;Resistance Training/ methods
PreImplantation factor promotes neuroprotection by targeting microRNA let-7	M. Mueller, et al.	2014	25205808	Dysfunction and loss of neurons are the major characteristics of CNS disorders that include stroke, multiple sclerosis, and Alzheimer's disease. Activation of the Toll-like receptor 7 by extracellular microRNA let-7, a highly expressed microRNA in the CNS, induces neuronal cell death. Let-7 released from injured neurons and immune cells acts on neighboring cells, exacerbating CNS damage. Here we show that a synthetic peptide analogous to the mammalian PreImplantation factor (PIF) secreted by developing embryos and which is present in the maternal circulation during pregnancy inhibits the biogenesis of let-7 in both neuronal and immune cells of the mouse. The synthetic peptide, sPIF, destabilizes KH-type splicing regulatory protein (KSRP), a key microRNA-processing protein, in a Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4)-dependent manner, leading to decreased production of let-7. Furthermore, s.c. administration of sPIF into neonatal rats following hypoxic-ischemic brain injury robustly rescued cortical volume and number of neurons and decreased the detrimental glial response, as is consistent with diminished levels of KSRP and let-7 in sPIF-treated brains. Our results reveal a previously unexpected mechanism of action of PIF and underscore the potential clinical utility of sPIF in treating hypoxic-ischemic brain damage. The newly identified PIF/TLR4/KSRP/let-7 regulatory axis also may operate during embryo implantation and development.	Animals;Blastocyst/cytology/ metabolism;Brain Ischemia/genetics/metabolism;Embryo Implantation/ physiology;Female;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Peptides/genetics/ metabolism;Pregnancy;RNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Rats;Rats, Wistar;Toll-Like Receptor 4/genetics/metabolism;Trans-Activators/genetics/metabolism
Myeloid Dysregulation in a Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cell Model of PTPN11-Associated Juvenile Myelomonocytic Leukemia	S. Mulero-Navarro, et al.	2015	26456833	Somatic PTPN11 mutations cause juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML). Germline PTPN11 defects cause Noonan syndrome (NS), and specific inherited mutations cause NS/JMML. Here, we report that hematopoietic cells differentiated from human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) harboring NS/JMML-causing PTPN11 mutations recapitulated JMML features. hiPSC-derived NS/JMML myeloid cells exhibited increased signaling through STAT5 and upregulation of miR-223 and miR-15a. Similarly, miR-223 and miR-15a were upregulated in 11/19 JMML bone marrow mononuclear cells harboring PTPN11 mutations, but not those without PTPN11 defects. Reducing miR-223's function in NS/JMML hiPSCs normalized myelogenesis. MicroRNA target gene expression levels were reduced in hiPSC-derived myeloid cells as well as in JMML cells with PTPN11 mutations. Thus, studying an inherited human cancer syndrome with hiPSCs illuminated early oncogenesis prior to the accumulation of secondary genomic alterations, enabling us to discover microRNA dysregulation, establishing a genotype-phenotype association for JMML and providing therapeutic targets.	Cells, Cultured;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells/ cytology/metabolism;Leukemia, Myelomonocytic, Juvenile/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;MicroRNAs/genetics;Mutation;Myeloid Cells/ cytology/metabolism;Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase, Non-Receptor Type 11/ genetics;Sialic Acid Binding Ig-like Lectin 3/genetics/ metabolism;Up-Regulation
c-Met inhibition in a HOXA9/Meis1 model of CN-AML	N. M. Mulgrew, et al.	2014	24307265	BACKGROUND: Hematopoiesis is a paradigm for developmental processes, hierarchically organized, with stem cells at its origin. Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) replenish progenitor and precursor cells of multiple lineages, which normally differentiate into short-lived mature circulating cells. Hematopoiesis has provided insight into the molecular basis of tissue homeostasis and malignancy. Malignant hematopoiesis, in particular acute myeloid leukemia (AML), results from impaired development or differentiation of HSCs and progenitors. Co-overexpression of HOX and TALE genes, particularly the HOXA cluster and MEIS1, is associated with AML. Clinically relevant models of AML are required to advance drug development for an aging patient cohort. RESULTS: Molecular analysis identified altered gene, microRNA, and protein expression in HOXA9/Meis1 leukemic bone marrow compared to normal controls. A candidate drug screen identified the c-Met inhibitor SU11274 for further analysis. Altered cell cycle status, apoptosis, differentiation, and impaired colony formation were shown for SU11274 in AML cell lines and primary leukemic bone marrow. CONCLUSIONS: The clonal HOXA9/Meis1 AML model is amenable to drug screening analysis. The data presented indicate that human AML cells respond in a similar manner to the HOXA9/Meis1 cells, indicating pre-clinical relevance of the mouse model.	Animals;Disease Models, Animal;Homeodomain Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Humans;Indoles/ therapeutic use;Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute/drug therapy/genetics/ metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics;Neoplasm Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Piperazines/ therapeutic use;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-met/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;Sulfonamides/ therapeutic use;Hoxa9;Meis1;candidate drugs;leukemia;mouse model
MicroRNA-29a Is a Candidate Biomarker for Alzheimer's Disease in Cell-Free Cerebrospinal Fluid	M. Muller, et al.	2016	25895659	The identification of reliable biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains challenging. Recently, abnormal levels of microRNAs (miRNAs) miR-27a, miR-29a, miR-29b, and miR-125b in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of AD patients were reported. We aimed to confirm the biomarker potential of these miRNAs for AD diagnosis. Additionally, we examined the influence of blood contamination on CSF miRNA levels as potential confounding factor. We studied expression levels of the four miRNAs by quantitative PCR in CSF samples of AD patients and non-demented controls, and in blood-spiked CSF. Levels of miR-29a, but not of the other three miRNAs, were increased by a factor of 2.2 in CSF of AD patients. Spiking of small amounts of blood into CSF revealed that miR-27a and miR-29a, but not miR-125b levels were strongly influenced by the number of blood cells in the sample. In conclusion, miR-29a may be a candidate biomarker for AD, but only when used in cell-free CSF.	Alzheimer disease;Biological marker;Cerebrospinal fluid;Diagnosis;microRNA
MicroRNAs in Alzheimer's disease: differential expression in hippocampus and cell-free cerebrospinal fluid	M. Muller, et al.	2014	23962497	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, noncoding RNAs that function in complex networks to regulate protein expression. In the brain, they are involved in development and synaptic plasticity. In this study, we aimed to identify miRNAs with a differential expression in either hippocampus or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and age-matched nondemented control subjects using quantitative polymerase chain reaction. In hippocampus, we also differentiated between AD patients with an intermediate stage, according to Braak III/IV stage, and a late stage, characterized according to Braak VI stage. Eight selected miRNAs were analyzed in hippocampus, and the expression of miR-16, miR-34c, miR-107, miR-128a, and miR-146a were differentially regulated. In CSF, out of 8 selected miRNAs only miR-16 and miR-146a could be reliably detected. In addition, we identified an effect of blood contamination on the CSF levels of miR-16, miR-24, and miR-146a. For group comparisons, we therefore selected CSF samples absent of, or containing only low numbers of blood cells. Levels of miR-146a were significantly decreased in CSF of AD patients. In conclusion, the abnormal expression of several miRNAs in hippocampus of intermediate- and late-stage AD patients suggests their involvement in AD pathogenesis, and low levels of miR-146a in CSF were associated with AD.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics;Cell-Free System;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/ genetics;Hippocampus/ metabolism;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ cerebrospinal fluid/genetics/ isolation & purification/physiology;Middle Aged;Neuronal Plasticity;Polymerase Chain Reaction;Severity of Illness Index;Synapses/physiology;Alzheimer disease;Biological marker;Cerebrospinal fluid;Hippocampus;MicroRNA
Validation of microRNAs in Cerebrospinal Fluid as Biomarkers for Different Forms of Dementia in a Multicenter Study	M. Muller, et al.	2016	27104900	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate translational inhibition of proteins, but are also detected in body fluids, including cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), where they may serve as disease-specific biomarkers. Previously, we showed differential expression of miR-146a, miR-29a, and miR-125b in the CSF of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients versus controls. In this study, we aim to confirm these findings by using larger, independent sample cohorts of AD patients and controls from three different centers. Furthermore, we aim to identify confounding factors that possibly arise using such a multicenter approach. The study was extended by including patients diagnosed with mild cognitive impairment due to AD, frontotemporal dementia and dementia with Lewy bodies. Previous results of decreased miR-146a levels in AD patients compared to controls were confirmed in one center. When samples from all three centers were combined, several confounding factors were identified. After controlling for these factors, we did not identify differences in miRNA levels between the different groups. However, we provide suggestions to circumvent various pitfalls when measuring miRNAs in CSF to improve future studies.	Alzheimer's disease;Lewy body disease;cerebrospinal fluid;frontotemporal dementia;microRNAs;mild cognitive impairment
Progressive changes in non-coding RNA profile in leucocytes with age	M. Munoz-Culla, et al.	2017	28448962	It has been observed that immune cell deterioration occurs in the elderly, as well as a chronic low-grade inflammation called inflammaging. These cellular changes must be driven by numerous changes in gene expression and in fact, both protein-coding and non-coding RNA expression alterations have been observed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from elder people. In the present work we have studied the expression of small non-coding RNA (microRNA and small nucleolar RNA -snoRNA-) from healthy individuals from 24 to 79 years old. We have observed that the expression of 69 non-coding RNAs (56 microRNAs and 13 snoRNAs) changes progressively with chronological age. According to our results, the age range from 47 to 54 is critical given that it is the period when the expression trend (increasing or decreasing) of age-related small non-coding RNAs is more pronounced. Furthermore, age-related miRNAs regulate genes that are involved in immune, cell cycle and cancer-related processes, which had already been associated to human aging. Therefore, human aging could be studied as a result of progressive molecular changes, and different age ranges should be analysed to cover the whole aging process.	aging;human;leucocytes;microRNA;non-coding RNA;regulation;transcriptome
SncRNA (microRNA &snoRNA) opposite expression pattern found in multiple sclerosis relapse and remission is sex dependent	M. Munoz-Culla, et al.	2016	26831009	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a common inflammatory and degenerative disease that causes neurological disability. It affects young adults and its prevalence is higher in women. The most common form is manifested as a series of acute episodes of neurological disability (relapses) followed by a recovery phase (remission). Recently, non-coding RNAs have emerged as new players in transcriptome regulation, and in turn, they could have a significant role in MS pathogenesis. In this context, our aim was to investigate the involvement of microRNAs and snoRNAs in the relapse-remission dynamics of MS in peripheral blood leucocytes, to shed light on the molecular and regulatory mechanisms that underlie this complex process. With this approach, we found that a subset of small non-coding RNAs (sncRNA) is altered in relapse and remission, revealing unexpected opposite changes that are sex dependent. Furthermore, we found that a relapse-related miRNA signature regulated general metabolism processes in leucocytes, and miRNA altered in remission are involved in the regulation of innate immunity. We observed that sncRNA dysregulation is different in relapse and remission leading to differences in transcriptome regulation, and that this process is sex dependent. In conclusion, relapse and remission have a different molecular background in men and women.	Adult;Aged;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Middle Aged;Multiple Sclerosis/ blood;RNA, Small Nucleolar/ biosynthesis;Sex Characteristics;Transcriptome
miR-184 regulates ezrin, LAMP-1 expression, affects phagocytosis in human retinal pigment epithelium and is downregulated in age-related macular degeneration	N. Murad, et al.	2014	25251993	MicroRNA 184 (miR-184) is known to play a key role in neurological development and apoptosis and is highly expressed in mouse brain, mouse corneal epithelium, zebrafish lens and human retinal pigment epithelium (RPE). However, the role of miR-184 in RPE is largely unknown. We investigated the role of miR-184 in RPE and its possible implication in age-related macular degeneration (AMD). Proteomic analysis identified the ezrin (EZR) gene as a target of miR-184 in human RPE. EZR is a membrane cytoskeleton crosslinker that is also known to bind to lysosomal-associated membrane protein 1 (LAMP-1) during the formation of phagocytic vacuoles. In adult retinal pigment epithelium 19 (ARPE19) cells, inhibition of miR-184 resulted in upregulation of EZR mRNA and EZR protein, and induced downregulation of LAMP-1. The inhibition of miR-184 decreased EZR-bound LAMP-1 protein levels and affected phagocytic activity in ARPE19 cells. In primary culture of human RPE isolated from eyes of AMD donors (AMD RPE), miR-184 was significantly downregulated compared with control (normal) RPE. Downregulation of miR-184 was consistent with significantly lower levels of LAMP-1 protein in AMD RPE, and overexpression of MIR-184 in AMD RPE was able to rescue LAMP-1 protein expression to normal levels. Altogether, these observations suggest a novel role for miR-184 in RPE health and support a model proposing that downregulation of miR-184 expression during aging may result in dysregulation of RPE function, contributing to retinal degeneration.	Adolescent;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Cells, Cultured;Child;Cytoskeletal Proteins/genetics/ physiology;Down-Regulation;Female;Humans;Lysosome-Associated Membrane Glycoproteins/genetics/ physiology;Macular Degeneration/ etiology/genetics/metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Middle Aged;Phagocytosis;Retinal Photoreceptor Cell Outer Segment/metabolism;Retinal Pigment Epithelium/ metabolism;Amd;Lamp-1;Rpe;ezrin;miR-184
miR-148a is an androgen-responsive microRNA that promotes LNCaP prostate cell growth by repressing its target CAND1 expression	T. Murata, et al.	2010	20820187	Recent advances in cancer biology reveal that microRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in the regulation of cancer-related genes, or they function as tumor suppressors or oncogenes. In prostate cancer, evidence has accumulated for the contribution of the androgen-dependent gene network to tumor growth, although the precise functions of miRNAs in prostate cancer remain to be investigated. Here, we identified androgen-responsive miRNAs by the short RNA sequencing analysis in LNCaP prostate cancer cells. Among 10 miRNAs with known sequences, we have determined that miR-148a reduces the expression of cullin-associated and neddylation-dissociated 1 (CAND1), a negative regulator of SKP1-Cullin1-F-box (SCF) ubiquitin ligases, by binding to the 3'-untranslated region of CAND1 mRNA. CAND1 knockdown by small interfering RNA promoted the proliferation of LNCaP cells. Our study indicates the potential contribution of miR-148a to the growth of human prostate cancer.	3' Untranslated Regions;Adenocarcinoma/ genetics/pathology;Androgens/pharmacology;Binding Sites/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation/drug effects;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/drug effects;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism/ physiology;Prostatic Neoplasms/ genetics/pathology;Transcription Factors/antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics/metabolism;Transfection
Acat1 knockdown gene therapy decreases amyloid-beta in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease	S. R. Murphy, et al.	2013	23774792	Both genetic inactivation and pharmacological inhibition of the cholesteryl ester synthetic enzyme acyl-CoA:cholesterol acyltransferase 1 (ACAT1) have shown benefit in mouse models of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we aimed to test the potential therapeutic applications of adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated Acat1 gene knockdown in AD mice. We constructed recombinant AAVs expressing artificial microRNA (miRNA) sequences, which targeted Acat1 for knockdown. We demonstrated that our AAVs could infect cultured mouse neurons and glia and effectively knockdown ACAT activity in vitro. We next delivered the AAVs to mouse brains neurosurgically, and demonstrated that Acat1-targeting AAVs could express viral proteins and effectively diminish ACAT activity in vivo, without inducing appreciable inflammation. We delivered the AAVs to the brains of 10-month-old AD mice and analyzed the effects on the AD phenotype at 12 months of age. Acat1-targeting AAV delivered to the brains of AD mice decreased the levels of brain amyloid-beta and full-length human amyloid precursor protein (hAPP), to levels similar to complete genetic ablation of Acat1. This study provides support for the potential therapeutic use of Acat1 knockdown gene therapy in AD.	Acetyl-CoA C-Acetyltransferase/ genetics/metabolism;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/metabolism/therapy;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Brain/metabolism;Dependovirus/genetics;Disease Models, Animal;Female;Gene Expression;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Gene Order;Genetic Therapy;Genetic Vectors/genetics;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Neurons/metabolism;Transduction, Genetic
Profile of 6 microRNA in blood plasma distinguish early stage Alzheimer's disease patients from non-demented subjects	S. Nagaraj, et al.	2017	28179587	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common age-related dementia. Among its major challenges is identifying molecular signatures characteristic for the early AD stage in patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI-AD), which could serve for deciphering the AD pathomechanism and also as non-invasive, easy-to-access biomarkers. Using qRT-PCR we compared the microRNA (miRNA) profiles in blood plasma of 15 MCI-AD patients, whose diagnoses were confirmed by cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers, with 20 AD patients and 15 non-demented, age-matched individuals (CTR).To minimize methodological variability, we adhered to standardization of blood and CSF assays recommended by the international Joint Programming for Neurodegenerative Diseases (JPND) BIOMARKAPD consortium, and we employed commercially available Exiqon qRT-PCR-assays. In the first screening, we assessed 179 miRNAs of plasma. We confirmed 23 miRNAs reported earlier as AD biomarker candidates in blood and found 26 novel differential miRNAs between AD and control subjects. For representative 15 differential miRNAs, the TargetScan, MirTarBase and KEGG database analysis indicated putative protein targets among such AD hallmarks as MAPT (Tau), proteins involved in amyloidogenic proteolysis, and in apoptosis. These 15 miRNAs were verified in separate, subsequent subject groups. Finally, 6 miRNAs (3 not yet reported in AD context and 3 reported in AD blood) were selected as the most promising biomarker candidates differentiating early AD from controls with the highest fold changes (from 1.32 to 14.72), consistent significance, specificities from 0.78 to 1 and sensitivities from 0.75 to 1. (patent pending, PCT/IB2016/052440).	Aged;Alzheimer Disease/blood/diagnosis/ genetics;Amyloid beta-Peptides/cerebrospinal fluid;Biomarkers/blood/cerebrospinal fluid;Dementia/blood/diagnosis/ genetics;Diagnosis, Differential;Early Diagnosis;Female;Gene Expression Profiling/ methods;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/blood/ genetics;Middle Aged;Peptide Fragments/cerebrospinal fluid;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;tau Proteins/cerebrospinal fluid;Alzheimer`s disease;Gerotarget;biomarker;early Alzheimer's disease;microRNA;mild cognitive impairment
Effects of postmortem interval on biomolecule integrity in the brain	C. Nagy, et al.	2015	25868148	Postmortem brain research is invaluable to the study of neurologic and neuropsychiatric disorders, including Alzheimer disease, schizophrenia, and major depression. A major confounder in molecular studies using human brain tissue is postmortem interval (i.e. the amount of time between a subject's death and processing of tissue). We examined the integrity of biomolecules that were of interest to molecular studies of neurologic disorders, including RNA, microRNA, histone modifications, and proteins, at various postmortem intervals in an animal model to assess their robustness and suitability for experimentation. Sprague-Dawley rats were selected as model and subjected to 2 conditions: a variable postmortem interval at room temperature and a fixed time of 24 hours at 4 degrees C, which simulates the period commonly spent in the morgue before brain collection. Eight time points were investigated. MicroRNA was impressively resistant to postmortem intervals; methylated histone modifications showed a threshold between 72 and 96 hours, mirroring results from histone proteins at 72 hours. RNA degradation was transcript-specific, with housekeeping genes being more robust than genes with lower expression. Our results suggest that molecules commonly investigated in genetic and epigenetic studies were highly stable through the postmortem intervals investigated. These results support the continued use of postmortem tissue for neuropsychiatric research.	Analysis of Variance;Animals;Brain/ metabolism;Chromatin Immunoprecipitation;Gene Expression Regulation;Histones/metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Postmortem Changes;Proteins/genetics/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Time Factors
Comparative analysis of gene expression data reveals novel targets of senescence-associated microRNAs	M. Napolitano, et al.	2014	24905922	In the last decades, cellular senescence is viewed as a complex mechanism involved in different processes, ranging from tumor suppression to induction of age-related degenerative alterations. Senescence-inducing stimuli are myriad and, recently, we and others have demonstrated the role exerted by microRNAs in the induction and maintenance of senescence, by the identification of a subset of Senescence-Associated microRNAs (SAmiRs) up-regulated during replicative or stress-induced senescence and able to induce a premature senescent phenotype when over-expressed in human primary cells. With the intent to find novel direct targets of two specific SAmiRs, SAmiR-494 and -486-5p, and cellular pathways which they are involved in, we performed a comparative analysis of gene expression profiles available in literature to select genes down-regulated upon replicative senescence of human primary fibroblasts. Among them, we searched for SAmiR's candidate targets by analyzing with different target prediction algorithms their 3'UTR for the presence of SAmiR-binding sites. The expression profiles of selected candidates have been validated on replicative and stress-induced senescence and the targeting of the 3'UTRs was assessed by luciferase assay. Results allowed us to identify Cell Division Cycle Associated 2 (CDCA2) and Inhibitor of DNA binding/differentiation type 4 (ID4) as novel targets of SAmiR-494 and SAmiR-486-5p, respectively. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the over-expression of CDCA2 in human primary fibroblasts was able to partially counteract etoposide-induced senescence by mitigating the activation of DNA Damage Response.	Carrier Proteins/genetics;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Cycle/genetics;Cell Cycle Proteins/genetics;Down-Regulation/genetics;Fibroblasts/cytology;Gene Expression Profiling;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Inhibitor of Differentiation Proteins/genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Nuclear Proteins/genetics
Small RNAome profiling from human skeletal muscle: novel miRNAs and their targets associated with cancer cachexia	A. Narasimhan, et al.	2017	28058815	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRs) are small non-coding RNAs that regulate gene (mRNA) expression. Although the pathological role of miRs have been studied in muscle wasting conditions such as myotonic and muscular dystrophy, their roles in cancer cachexia (CC) are still emerging. OBJECTIVES: The objectives are (i) to profile human skeletal muscle expressed miRs; (ii) to identify differentially expressed (DE) miRs between cachectic and non-cachectic cancer patients; (iii) to identify mRNA targets for the DE miRs to gain mechanistic insights; and (iv) to investigate if miRs show potential prognostic and predictive value. METHODS: Study subjects were classified based on the international consensus diagnostic criteria for CC. Forty-two cancer patients were included, of which 22 were cachectic cases and 20 were non-cachectic cancer controls. Total RNA isolated from muscle biopsies were subjected to next-generation sequencing. RESULTS: A total of 777 miRs were profiled, and 82 miRs with read counts of >/=5 in 80% of samples were retained for analysis. We identified eight DE miRs (up-regulated, fold change of >/=1.4 at P < 0.05). A total of 191 potential mRNA targets were identified for the DE miRs using previously described human skeletal muscle mRNA expression data (n = 90), and a majority of them were also confirmed in an independent mRNA transcriptome dataset. Ingenuity pathway analysis identified pathways related to myogenesis and inflammation. qRT-PCR analysis of representative miRs showed similar direction of effect (P < 0.05), as observed in next-generation sequencing. The identified miRs also showed prognostic and predictive value. CONCLUSIONS: In all, we identified eight novel miRs associated with CC.	Cancer cachexia;gene expression;miRs;microRNAs;muscle transcriptome;next-generation sequencing;skeletal muscle;weight loss
Atrial remodeling and atrial fibrillation: recent advances and translational perspectives	S. Nattel and M. Harada	2014	24613319	Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained arrhythmia in clinical practice. AF and its complications are responsible for important population morbidity and mortality. Presently available therapeutic approaches have limited efficacy and nontrivial potential to cause adverse effects. Thus, new mechanistic knowledge is essential for therapeutic innovation. Atrial arrhythmogenic remodeling, defined as any change in atrial structure or function that promotes atrial arrhythmias, is central to AF. Remodeling can be due to underlying cardiac conditions, systemic processes and conditions such as aging, or AF itself. Recent work has underlined the importance of remodeling in AF, provided new insights into basic mechanisms, and identified new biomarker/imaging approaches to follow remodeling processes. The importance of intracellular Ca(2+) handling abnormalities has been highlighted, both for the induction of triggered ectopic activity and for the activation of Ca(2+)-related cell signaling that mediates profibrillatory remodeling. The importance of microRNAs, which are a new class of small noncoding sequences that regulate gene expression, has emerged in both electrical and structural remodeling. Remodeling related to aging, cardiac disease, and AF itself is believed to underlie the progressive nature of the arrhythmia, which contributes to the complexities of long-term management. New tools that are being developed to quantify remodeling processes and monitor their progression include novel biomarkers, imaging modalities to quantify/localize fibrosis, and noninvasive monitoring/mapping to better characterize the burden of AF and identify arrhythmic sources. This report reviews recent advances in the understanding of the basic pathophysiology of atrial remodeling and potential therapeutic implications.	Atrial Fibrillation/ complications/ pathology/physiopathology;Atrial Remodeling;Humans;MicroRNAs/physiology;Signal Transduction;Translational Medical Research;calcium handling;cardiac arrhythmias;electrophysiology;heart disease;pharmacology
EGFR regulation of colon cancer stem-like cells during aging and in response to the colonic carcinogen dimethylhydrazine	J. Nautiyal, et al.	2012	22281474	One of the most consistent pathological conditions in the gastrointestinal tract with advancing age is malignancy, particularly gastrointestinal cancers, the incidence of which increases sharply with aging. Although the reasons for the age-related rise in colorectal cancer are not fully understood, we hypothesize that aging increases susceptibility of the colon to carcinogen(s)/toxicant(s), leading to an increase in cancer stem-like cells (CSLCs) that express cancer stem cell markers, in the colonic mucosa. The current study demonstrates that aging is associated with increased expression of several colon CSLC markers [CD44, CD166, and aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 (ALDH-1)] and a higher proportion of cells expressing these markers. Aging is also accompanied by increased expression of miR-21 in colon. These increases are further increased in response to the colonic carcinogen dimethylhydrazine (DMH). Aging is also associated with increased tyrosine-phosphorylated epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). Inhibition of EGFR using the EGFR inhibitor cetuximab abrogated the age-related increase in CD166 and ALDH-1 as well as miRNA (miR)-21. Our results provide new evidence that aging and DMH are associated with increases in CSLC biomarkers and miR21, each of which have been linked to colorectal cancer. EGFR inhibition attenuates these changes, indicating a role for EGFR in age- and mutagen-associated changes in CSLCs.	Aging/pathology/ physiology;Animals;Antibodies, Monoclonal/pharmacology;Antibodies, Monoclonal, Humanized;Antineoplastic Agents/pharmacology;Biomarkers, Tumor/metabolism;Carcinogens/ toxicity;Cetuximab;Colon/cytology/metabolism;Colonic Neoplasms/metabolism/pathology;Dimethylhydrazines/ toxicity;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/drug effects/physiology;Intestinal Mucosa/cytology;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Neoplastic Stem Cells/ drug effects/ metabolism;Rats;Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor/genetics/ metabolism
Reasoning over genetic variance information in cause-and-effect models of neurodegenerative diseases	M. Naz, et al.	2016	26249223	The work we present here is based on the recent extension of the syntax of the Biological Expression Language (BEL), which now allows for the representation of genetic variation information in cause-and-effect models. In our article, we describe, how genetic variation information can be used to identify candidate disease mechanisms in diseases with complex aetiology such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. In those diseases, we have to assume that many genetic variants contribute moderately to the overall dysregulation that in the case of neurodegenerative diseases has such a long incubation time until the first clinical symptoms are detectable. Owing to the multilevel nature of dysregulation events, systems biomedicine modelling approaches need to combine mechanistic information from various levels, including gene expression, microRNA (miRNA) expression, protein-protein interaction, genetic variation and pathway. OpenBEL, the open source version of BEL, has recently been extended to match this requirement, and we demonstrate in our article, how candidate mechanisms for early dysregulation events in Alzheimer's disease can be identified based on an integrative mining approach that identifies 'chains of causation' that include single nucleotide polymorphism information in BEL models.	Alzheimer's disease;BEL model;Gwas;causal reasoning;cause-and-effect;genetic variants
miR-137 Modulates a Tumor Suppressor Network-Inducing Senescence in Pancreatic Cancer Cells	M. Neault, et al.	2016	26904954	Activating K-Ras mutations occurs frequently in pancreatic cancers and is implicated in their development. Cancer-initiating events, such as oncogenic Ras activation, lead to the induction of cellular senescence, a tumor suppressor response. During senescence, the decreased levels of KDM4A lysine demethylase contribute to p53 activation, however, the mechanism by which KDM4A is downregulated is unknown. We show that miR-137 targets KDM4A mRNA during Ras-induced senescence and activates both p53 and retinoblastoma (pRb) tumor suppressor pathways. Restoring the KDM4A expression contributed to bypass of miR-137-induced senescence and inhibition of endogenous miR-137 with an miRNA sponge-compromised Ras-induced senescence. miR-137 levels are significantly reduced in human pancreatic tumors, consistent with previous studies revealing a defective senescence response in this cancer type. Restoration of miR-137 expression inhibited proliferation and promoted senescence of pancreatic cancer cells. These results suggest that modulating levels of miR-137 may be important for triggering tumor suppressor networks in pancreatic cancer.	Animals;Base Sequence;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Fibroblasts/cytology/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Gene Regulatory Networks;Genes, Reporter;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Jumonji Domain-Containing Histone Demethylases/ genetics/metabolism;Luciferases/genetics/metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Oncogene Protein p21(ras)/ genetics/metabolism;Osteoblasts/metabolism/pathology;Pancreatic Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Retinoblastoma Protein/ genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ genetics/metabolism
MicroRNA in Situ Hybridization in the Human Entorhinal and Transentorhinal Cortex	P. T. Nelson, et al.	2010	20204141	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play key roles in gene expression regulation in both healthy and disease brains. To better understand those roles, it is necessary to characterize the miRNAs that are expressed in particular cell types under a range of conditions. In situ hybridization (ISH) can demonstrate cell- and lamina-specific patterns of miRNA expression that would be lost in tissue-level expression profiling. In the present study, ISH was performed with special focus on the human entorhinal cortex (EC) and transentorhinal cortex (TEC). The TEC is the area of the cerebral cortex that first develops neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the reason for TEC's special vulnerability to AD-type pathology is unknown. MiRNA ISH was performed on three human brains with well-characterized clinical and pathological parameters. Locked nucleic acid ISH probes were used referent to miR-107, miR-124, miR-125b, and miR-320. In order to correlate the ISH data with AD pathology, the ISH staining was compared with near-adjacent slides processed using Thioflavine stains. Not all neurons or cortical lamina stain with equal intensity for individual miRNAs. As with other areas of brain, the TEC and EC have characteristic miRNA expression patterns. MiRNA ISH is among the first methods to show special staining characteristics of cells and laminae of the human TEC.	Alzheimer;Nft;Rna;brain;hippocampus;ncRNA;neurodegeneration;neuron
MiR-107 is reduced in Alzheimer's disease brain neocortex: validation study	P. T. Nelson and W. X. Wang	2010	20413881	MiR-107 is a microRNA (miRNA) that we reported previously to have decreased expression in the temporal cortical gray matter early in the progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here we study a new group of well-characterized human temporal cortex samples (N=19). MiR-107 expression was assessed, normalized to miR-124 and let-7a. Correlation was observed between decreased miR-107 expression and increased neuritic plaque counts (P< 0.05) and neurofibrillary tangle counts (P< 0.02) in adjacent brain tissue. Adjusted miR-107 and BACE1 mRNA levels tended to correlate negatively (trend with regression P< 0.07). In sum, miR-107 expression tends to be lower relative to other miRNAs as AD progresses.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ pathology;Disease Progression;Down-Regulation/ physiology;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Neocortex/ metabolism;Validation Studies as Topic
Novel human ABCC9/SUR2 brain-expressed transcripts and an eQTL relevant to hippocampal sclerosis of aging	P. T. Nelson, et al.	2015	26115089	ABCC9 genetic polymorphisms are associated with increased risk for various human diseases including hippocampal sclerosis of aging. The main goals of this study were 1 > to detect the ABCC9 variants and define the specific 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) for each variant in human brain, and 2 > to determine whether a polymorphism (rs704180) associated with risk for hippocampal sclerosis of aging pathology is also associated with variation in ABCC9 transcript expression and/or splicing. Rapid amplification of ABCC9 cDNA ends (3'RACE) provided evidence of novel 3' UTR portions of ABCC9 in human brain. In silico and experimental studies were performed focusing on the single nucleotide polymorphism, rs704180. Analyses from multiple databases, focusing on rs704180 only, indicated that this risk allele is a local expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL). Analyses of RNA from human brains showed increased ABCC9 transcript levels in individuals with the risk genotype, corresponding with enrichment for a shorter 3' UTR which may be more stable than variants with the longer 3' UTR. MicroRNA transfection experiments yielded results compatible with the hypothesis that miR-30c causes down-regulation of SUR2 transcripts with the longer 3' UTR. Thus we report evidence of complex ABCC9 genetic regulation in brain, which may be of direct relevance to human disease. ABCC9 gene variants are associated with increased risk for hippocampal sclerosis of aging (HS-Aging--a prevalent brain disease with symptoms that mimic Alzheimer's disease). We describe novel ABCC9 variants in human brain, corresponding to altered 3'UTR length, which could lead to targeting by miR-30c. We also determined that the HS-Aging risk mutation is associated with variation in ABCC9 transcript expression.	Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ pathology;Brain Diseases/ genetics/pathology;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/genetics;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Hippocampus/ pathology;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics;Neurodegenerative Diseases/ genetics/pathology;Polymerase Chain Reaction;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Quantitative Trait Loci;Sclerosis/genetics/pathology;Sulfonylurea Receptors/ genetics;Katp;Sur2a;SUR2Ab;Sur2b;Tdp-43
Regulation of gene expression by the BLM helicase correlates with the presence of G-quadruplex DNA motifs	G. H. Nguyen, et al.	2014	24958861	Bloom syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterized by genetic instability and cancer predisposition, and caused by mutations in the gene encoding the Bloom syndrome, RecQ helicase-like (BLM) protein. To determine whether altered gene expression might be responsible for pathological features of Bloom syndrome, we analyzed mRNA and microRNA (miRNA) expression in fibroblasts from individuals with Bloom syndrome and in BLM-depleted control fibroblasts. We identified mRNA and miRNA expression differences in Bloom syndrome patient and BLM-depleted cells. Differentially expressed mRNAs are connected with cell proliferation, survival, and molecular mechanisms of cancer, and differentially expressed miRNAs target genes involved in cancer and in immune function. These and additional altered functions or pathways may contribute to the proportional dwarfism, elevated cancer risk, immune dysfunction, and other features observed in Bloom syndrome individuals. BLM binds to G-quadruplex (G4) DNA, and G4 motifs were enriched at transcription start sites (TSS) and especially within first introns (false discovery rate </= 0.001) of differentially expressed mRNAs in Bloom syndrome compared with normal cells, suggesting that G-quadruplex structures formed at these motifs are physiologic targets for BLM. These results identify a network of mRNAs and miRNAs that may drive the pathogenesis of Bloom syndrome.	Bloom Syndrome/ genetics;Cells, Cultured;DNA/ chemistry;G-Quadruplexes;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic;Humans;RNA, Messenger/genetics;RecQ Helicases/ genetics
MicroRNA-203 mimics age-related aortic smooth muscle dysfunction of cytoskeletal pathways	C. J. Nicholson, et al.	2017	27502584	Increased aortic stiffness is a biomarker for subsequent adverse cardiovascular events. We have previously reported that vascular smooth muscle Src-dependent cytoskeletal remodelling, which contributes to aortic plasticity, is impaired with ageing. Here, we use a multi-scale approach to determine the molecular mechanisms behind defective Src-dependent signalling in an aged C57BL/6 male mouse model. Increased aortic stiffness, as measured in vivo by pulse wave velocity, was found to have a comparable time course to that in humans. Bioinformatic analyses predicted several miRs to regulate Src-dependent cytoskeletal remodelling. qRT-PCR was used to determine the relative levels of predicted miRs in aortas and, notably, the expression of miR-203 increased almost twofold in aged aorta. Increased miR-203 expression was associated with a decrease in both mRNA and protein expression of Src, caveolin-1 and paxillin in aged aorta. Probing with phospho-specific antibodies confirmed that overexpression of miR-203 significantly attenuated Src and extracellular signal regulated kinase (ERK) signalling, which we have previously found to regulate vascular smooth muscle stiffness. In addition, transfection of miR-203 into aortic tissue from young mice increased phenylephrine-induced aortic stiffness ex vivo, mimicking the aged phenotype. Upstream of miR-203, we found that DNA methyltransferases (DNMT) 1, 3a, and 3b are also significantly decreased in the aged mouse aorta and that DNMT inhibition significantly increases miR-203 expression. Thus, the age-induced increase in miR-203 may be caused by epigenetic promoter hypomethylation in the aorta. These findings indicate that miR-203 promotes a re-programming of Src/ERK signalling pathways in vascular smooth muscle, impairing the regulation of stiffness in aged aorta.	aortic stiffness;cytoskeleton;focal adhesion;microRNA;vascular smooth muscle
Identification of microRNAs dysregulated in cellular senescence driven by endogenous genotoxic stress	L. S. Nidadavolu, et al.	2013	23852002	XFE progeroid syndrome, a disease of accelerated aging caused by deficiency in the DNA repair endonuclease XPF-ERCC1, is modeled by Ercc1 knockout and hypomorphic mice. Tissues and primary cells from these mice senesce prematurely, offering a unique opportunity to identify factors that regulate senescence and aging. We compared microRNA (miRNA) expression in Ercc1-/- primary mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and wild-type (WT) MEFs in different growth conditions to identify miRNAs that drive cellular senescence. Microarray analysis showed three differentially expressed miRNAs in passage 7 (P7) Ercc1-/- MEFs grown at 20% O2 compared to Ercc1-/- MEFs grown at 3% O2. Thirty-six differentially expressed miRNAs were identified in Ercc1-/- MEFs at P7 compared to early passage (P3) in 3% O2. Eight of these miRNAs (miR-449a, miR-455*, miR-128, miR-497, miR-543, miR-450b-3p, miR-872 and miR-10b) were similarly downregulated in the liver of progeroid Ercc1-/Delta and old WT mice compared to adult WT mice, a tissue that senesces with aging. Three miRNAs (miR-449a, miR-455* and miR-128) were also downregulated in Ercc1-/Delta and WT old mice kidneys compared to young WT mice. We also discovered that the miRNA expression regulator Dicer is significantly downregulated in tissues of old mice and late passage cells compared to young controls. Collectively these results support the conclusion that the miRNAs identified may play an important role in staving off cellular senescence and their altered expression could be indicative of aging.	Animals;Cell Aging;Cells, Cultured;DNA Damage/ genetics/ physiology;DNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Endonucleases/genetics/metabolism;Fibroblasts/cytology/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation/physiology;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis
The miRNA plasma signature in response to acute aerobic exercise and endurance training	S. Nielsen, et al.	2014	24586268	MiRNAs are potent intracellular posttranscriptional regulators and are also selectively secreted into the circulation in a cell-specific fashion. Global changes in miRNA expression in skeletal muscle in response to endurance exercise training have been reported. Therefore, our aim was to establish the miRNA signature in human plasma in response to acute exercise and chronic endurance training by utilizing a novel methodological approach. RNA was isolated from human plasma collected from young healthy men before and after an acute endurance exercise bout and following 12 weeks of endurance training. Global miRNA (742 miRNAs) measurements were performed as a screening to identify detectable miRNAs in plasma. Using customized qPCR panels we quantified the expression levels of miRNAs detected in the screening procedure (188 miRNAs). We demonstrate a dynamic regulation of circulating miRNA (ci-miRNA) levels following 0 hour (miR-106a, miR-221, miR-30b, miR-151-5p, let-7i, miR-146, miR-652 and miR-151-3p), 1 hour (miR-338-3p, miR-330-3p, miR-223, miR-139-5p and miR-143) and 3 hours (miR-1) after an acute exercise bout (P<0.00032). Where ci-miRNAs were all downregulated immediately after an acute exercise bout (0 hour) the 1 and 3 hour post exercise timepoints were followed by upregulations. In response to chronic training, we identified seven ci-miRNAs with decreased levels in plasma (miR-342-3p, let-7d, miR-766, miR-25, miR-148a, miR-185 and miR-21) and two miRNAs that were present at higher levels after the training period (miR-103 and miR-107) (P<0.00032). In conclusion, acute exercise and chronic endurance training, likely through specific mechanisms unique to each stimulus, robustly modify the miRNA signature of human plasma.	Adult;Down-Regulation;Exercise/ physiology;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/genetics;Physical Endurance/ physiology;Time Factors;Up-Regulation
Muscle specific miRNAs are induced by testosterone and independently upregulated by age	S. Nielsen, et al.	2013	24478708	Age dependent decline in skeletal muscle function leads to impaired metabolic flexibility in elderly individuals. Physical activity and testosterone treatment have proven efficient strategies for delaying this condition. However, a common molecular pathway has not been identified. Muscle specific miRNAs (myomiRs) regulate metabolic pathways in skeletal muscle, are regulated by physical activity, and have response elements for testosterone in their promoter region. We therefore hypothesized that myomiRs would be regulated in skeletal muscle during aging. We further investigated any potential gender-dependent regulation of these miRNAs. We found that the myomiRs miR-1, miR-133a, and miR-133b were increased in skeletal muscle of elderly men compared to younger men. In addition, miR-133a/133b expression was markedly higher in women compared to men. Elimination of circulating testosterone in men was associated with lower levels of miR-133a and miR-133b. A positive regulatory effect of testosterone on miR-133a/133b expression was confirmed in castrated male C57BL/6J mice and in a model of primary human myocytes. Yet, an improvement of fitness level in the testosterone depleted men resulted in a down-regulation of miR133a/b. In conclusion, alterations in fitness level and circulating testosterone seem to represent two independent regulatory events where testosterone is a specific regulator of miR-133a/b expression.	aging;exercise;gender;miRNA;myomiRs;skeletal muscle
Reversal of pathology in CHMP2B-mediated frontotemporal dementia patient cells using RNA interference	T. T. Nielsen, et al.	2012	22786763	BACKGROUND: Frontotemporal dementia is the second most common form of young-onset dementia after Alzheimer's disease, and several genetic forms of frontotemporal dementia are known. A rare genetic variant is caused by a point mutation in the CHMP2B gene. CHMP2B is a component of the ESCRT-III complex, which is involved in endosomal trafficking of proteins targeted for degradation in lysosomes. Mutations in CHMP2B result in abnormal endosomal structures in patient fibroblasts and patient brains, probably through a gain-of-function mechanism, suggesting that the endosomal pathway plays a central role in the pathogenesis of the disease. METHODS: In the present study, we used lentiviral vectors to efficiently knockdown CHMP2B by delivering microRNA embedded small hairpin RNAs. RESULTS: We show that CHMP2B can be efficiently knocked down in patient fibroblasts using an RNA interference approach and that the knockdown causes reversal of the abnormal endosomal phenotype observed in patient fibroblasts. CONCLUSIONS: This is the first description of a treatment that reverses the cellular pathology caused by mutant CHMP2B and suggests that RNA interference might be a feasible therapeutic strategy. Furthermore, it provides the first proof of a direct link between the disease-causing mutation and the cellular phenotype in cells originating from CHMP2B mutation patients.	Analysis of Variance;Antigens, CD63/metabolism;Cells, Cultured;Endosomal Sorting Complexes Required for Transport/ genetics/metabolism;Endosomes/metabolism/pathology;Fibroblasts/metabolism/pathology;Frontotemporal Dementia/genetics/pathology/ therapy;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Genetic Therapy;Genetic Vectors;Humans;Lentivirus/genetics;Phenotype;RNA Interference;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics;Transcription, Genetic
Hmga2 promotes neural stem cell self-renewal in young but not old mice by reducing p16Ink4a and p19Arf Expression	J. Nishino, et al.	2008	18957199	Stem cells persist throughout life in diverse tissues by undergoing self-renewing divisions. Self-renewal capacity declines with age, partly because of increasing expression of the tumor suppressor p16(Ink4a). We discovered that the Hmga2 transcriptional regulator is highly expressed in fetal neural stem cells but that expression declines with age. This decrease is partly caused by the increasing expression of let-7b microRNA, which is known to target HMGA2. Hmga2-deficient mice show reduced stem cell numbers and self-renewal throughout the central and peripheral nervous systems of fetal and young-adult mice but not old-adult mice. Furthermore, p16(Ink4a) and p19(Arf) expression were increased in Hmga2-deficient fetal and young-adult stem cells, and deletion of p16(Ink4a) and/or p19(Arf) partially restored self-renewal capacity. let-7b overexpression reduced Hmga2 and increased p16(Ink4a)/p19(Arf) expression. Hmga2 thus promotes fetal and young-adult stem cell self-renewal by decreasing p16(Ink4a)/p19(Arf) expression. Changes in let-7 and Hmga2 expression during aging contribute to the decline in neural stem cell function.	Aging/ metabolism;Animals;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p16/ genetics;HMGA2 Protein/ metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Nervous System/embryology;Neurons/ metabolism;Stem Cells/ metabolism
A network of heterochronic genes including Imp1 regulates temporal changes in stem cell properties	J. Nishino, et al.	2013	24192035	Stem cell properties change over time to match the changing growth and regeneration demands of tissues. We showed previously that adult forebrain stem cell function declines during aging because of increased expression of let-7 microRNAs, evolutionarily conserved heterochronic genes that reduce HMGA2 expression. Here we asked whether let-7 targets also regulate changes between fetal and adult stem cells. We found a second let-7 target, the RNA binding protein IMP1, that is expressed by fetal, but not adult, neural stem cells. IMP1 expression was promoted by Wnt signaling and Lin28a expression and opposed by let-7 microRNAs. Imp1-deficient neural stem cells were prematurely depleted in the dorsal telencephalon due to accelerated differentiation, impairing pallial expansion. IMP1 post-transcriptionally inhibited the expression of differentiation-associated genes while promoting the expression of self-renewal genes, including Hmga2. A network of heterochronic gene products including Lin28a, let-7, IMP1, and HMGA2 thus regulates temporal changes in stem cell properties. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.00924.001.	Animals;Gene Expression Regulation/physiology;HMGA2 Protein/genetics;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/physiology;Neural Stem Cells/ cytology;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional;RNA-Binding Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Telencephalon/metabolism;cortical development;heterochronic gene;neural stem cell
Unique preservation of neural cells in Hutchinson- Gilford progeria syndrome is due to the expression of the neural-specific miR-9 microRNA	X. Nissan, et al.	2012	22840390	One puzzling observation in patients affected with Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS), who overall exhibit systemic and dramatic premature aging, is the absence of any conspicuous cognitive impairment. Recent studies based on induced pluripotent stem cells derived from HGPS patient cells have revealed a lack of expression in neural derivatives of lamin A, a major isoform of LMNA that is initially produced as a precursor called prelamin A. In HGPS, defective maturation of a mutated prelamin A induces the accumulation of toxic progerin in patient cells. Here, we show that a microRNA, miR-9, negatively controls lamin A and progerin expression in neural cells. This may bear major functional correlates, as alleviation of nuclear blebbing is observed in nonneural cells after miR-9 overexpression. Our results support the hypothesis, recently proposed from analyses in mice, that protection of neural cells from progerin accumulation in HGPS is due to the physiologically restricted expression of miR-9 to that cell lineage.	Animals;Cell Survival/genetics;Cells, Cultured;Gene Expression/physiology;Humans;Lamin Type A;Laminin/genetics;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism/ physiology;Models, Biological;Neural Stem Cells/metabolism/pathology/physiology;Neurons/metabolism/ pathology/ physiology;Nuclear Proteins/genetics;Organ Specificity/genetics;Progeria/genetics/metabolism/ pathology;Protein Precursors/genetics
Identification of a novel FGFRL1 MicroRNA target site polymorphism for bone mineral density in meta-analyses of genome-wide association studies	T. Niu, et al.	2015	25941324	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are critical post-transcriptional regulators. Based on a previous genome-wide association (GWA) scan, we conducted a polymorphism in microRNA target sites (poly-miRTS)-centric multistage meta-analysis for lumbar spine (LS)-, total hip (HIP)- and femoral neck (FN)-bone mineral density (BMD). In stage I, 41 102 poly-miRTSs were meta-analyzed in seven cohorts with a genome-wide significance (GWS) alpha = 0.05/41 102 = 1.22 x 10(-6). By applying alpha = 5 x 10(-5) (suggestive significance), 11 poly-miRTSs were selected, with FGFRL1 rs4647940 and PRR5 rs3213550 as top signals for FN-BMD (P = 7.67 x 10(-6) and 1.58 x 10(-5)) in gender-combined sample. In stage II in silico replication (two cohorts), FGFRL1 rs4647940 was the only signal marginally replicated for FN-BMD (P = 5.08 x 10(-3)) at alpha = 0.10/11 = 9.09 x 10(-3). PRR5 rs3213550 was also selected based on biological significance. In stage III de novo genotyping replication (two cohorts), FGFRL1 rs4647940 was the only signal significantly replicated for FN-BMD (P = 7.55 x 10(-6)) at alpha = 0.05/2 = 0.025 in gender-combined sample. Aggregating three stages, FGFRL1 rs4647940 was the single stage I-discovered and stages II- and III-replicated signal attaining GWS for FN-BMD (P = 8.87 x 10(-12)). Dual-luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that FGFRL1 3' untranslated region harboring rs4647940 appears to be hsa-miR-140-5p's target site. In a zebrafish microinjection experiment, dre-miR-140-5p is shown to exert a dramatic impact on craniofacial skeleton formation. Taken together, we provided functional evidence for a novel FGFRL1 poly-miRTS rs4647940 in a previously known 4p16.3 locus, and experimental and clinical genetics studies have shown both FGFRL1 and hsa-miR-140-5p are important for bone formation.	3' Untranslated Regions;Bone Density/ genetics;Female;Genetic Loci;Genome-Wide Association Study;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Polymorphism, Genetic;Receptor, Fibroblast Growth Factor, Type 5/ genetics
The expression of the Alzheimer's amyloid precursor protein-like gene is regulated by developmental timing microRNAs and their targets in Caenorhabditis elegans	R. Niwa, et al.	2008	18262516	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the accumulation of dense plaques in the brain, resulting in progressive dementia. A major plaque component is the beta-amyloid peptide, which is a cleavage product of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Studies of dominant inheritable familial AD support the hypothesis that APP is critical for AD development. On the other hand, the pathogenesis of amyloid plaque deposition in AD is thought to be the result of age-related changes with unknown mechanisms. Here we show that the Caenorhabditis elegans homolog of APP, APP-like-1 (apl-1), functions with and is under the control of molecules regulating developmental progression. In C. elegans, the timing of cell fate determination is controlled by the heterochronic genes, including let-7 microRNAs. C. elegans apl-1 shows significant genetic interactions with let-7 family microRNAs and let-7-targeted heterochronic genes, hbl-1, lin-41 and lin-42. apl-1 expression is upregulated during the last larval stage in hypodermal seam cells which is transcriptionally regulated by hbl-1, lin-41 and lin-42. Moreover, the levels of the apl-1 transcription are modulated by the activity of let-7 family microRNAs. Our work places apl-1 in a developmental timing pathway and may provide new insights into the time-dependent progression of AD.	Alzheimer Disease/etiology;Animals;Animals, Genetically Modified;Caenorhabditis elegans/ genetics/ growth & development/metabolism;Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins/ genetics;DNA-Binding Proteins/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Genes, Helminth;Humans;Membrane Proteins/ genetics;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Mutation;Phenotype;RNA Interference;RNA, Helminth/genetics/metabolism;Transcription Factors/genetics
Anti-oncogenic microRNA-203 induces senescence by targeting E2F3 protein in human melanoma cells	S. Noguchi, et al.	2012	22354972	MicroRNAs regulate gene expression by repressing translation or directing sequence-specific degradation of their complementary mRNA. We recently reported that miR-203 is down-regulated, and its exogenous expression inhibits cell growth in canine oral malignant melanoma tissue specimens as well as in canine and human malignant melanoma cells. A microRNA target database predicted E2F3 and ZBP-89 as putative targets of microRNA-203 (miR-203). The expression levels of E2F3a, E2F3b, and ZBP-89 were markedly up-regulated in human malignant melanoma Mewo cells compared with those in human epidermal melanocytes. miR-203 significantly suppressed the luciferase activity of reporter plasmids containing the 3'-UTR sequence of either E2F3 or ZBP-89 complementary to miR-203. The ectopic expression of miR-203 in melanoma cells reduced the levels of E2F3a, E2F3b, and ZBP-89 protein expression. At the same time, miR-203 induced cell cycle arrest and senescence phenotypes, such as elevated expression of hypophosphorylated retinoblastoma and other markers for senescence. Silencing of E2F3, but not of ZBP-89, inhibited cell growth and induced cell cycle arrest and senescence. These results demonstrate a novel role for miR-203 as a tumor suppressor acting by inducing senescence in melanoma cells.	Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Cell Aging;Cell Cycle;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Cell Survival;DNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/metabolism;E2F3 Transcription Factor/ genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Genes, Tumor Suppressor;Humans;Melanoma;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism/ physiology;Molecular Sequence Data;Protein Isoforms/genetics/metabolism/physiology;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-myc/genetics/metabolism;RNA Interference;Regulatory Sequences, Ribonucleic Acid;Sirtuin 1/genetics/metabolism;Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism
Prediction of miRNA-mRNA associations in Alzheimer's disease mice using network topology	H. Noh, et al.	2014	25086961	BACKGROUND: Little is known about the relationship between miRNA and mRNA expression in Alzheimer's disease (AD) at early- or late-symptomatic stages. Sequence-based target prediction algorithms and anti-correlation profiles have been applied to predict miRNA targets using omics data, but this approach often leads to false positive predictions. Here, we applied the joint profiling analysis of mRNA and miRNA expression levels to Tg6799 AD model mice at 4 and 8 months of age using a network topology-based method. We constructed gene regulatory networks and used the PageRank algorithm to predict significant interactions between miRNA and mRNA. RESULTS: In total, 8 cluster modules were predicted by the transcriptome data for co-expression networks of AD pathology. In total, 54 miRNAs were identified as being differentially expressed in AD. Among these, 50 significant miRNA-mRNA interactions were predicted by integrating sequence target prediction, expression analysis, and the PageRank algorithm. We identified a set of miRNA-mRNA interactions that were changed in the hippocampus of Tg6799 AD model mice. We determined the expression levels of several candidate genes and miRNA. For functional validation in primary cultured neurons from Tg6799 mice (MT) and littermate (LM) controls, the overexpression of ARRDC3 enhanced PPP1R3C expression. ARRDC3 overexpression showed the tendency to decrease the expression of miR139-5p and miR3470a in both LM and MT primary cells. Pathological environment created by Abeta treatment increased the gene expression of PPP1R3C and Sfpq but did not significantly alter the expression of miR139-5p or miR3470a. Abeta treatment increased the promoter activity of ARRDC3 gene in LM primary cells but not in MT primary cells. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate AD-specific changes in the miRNA regulatory system as well as the relationship between the expression levels of miRNAs and their targets in the hippocampus of Tg6799 mice. These data help further our understanding of the function and mechanism of various miRNAs and their target genes in the molecular pathology of AD.	Algorithms;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/ metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/metabolism;Animals;Arrestins/genetics;Gene Regulatory Networks;Genomics/ methods;Intracellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins/genetics;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Mutation;PTB-Associated Splicing Factor;Phenotype;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;RNA-Binding Proteins/genetics;Transcriptome
Increased expression of microRNA-29a in ALS mice: functional analysis of its inhibition	K. Nolan, et al.	2014	24696165	Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress has been implicated in a number of neurodegenerative diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). MicroRNAs are small ribonucleic acids which can modulate protein expression by binding to the 3'UTR of target mRNAs. We recently identified increased miR-29a expression in response to ER stress in neurons, with members of the miR-29 family implicated in cancer and neurodegeneration. We found high expression of miR-29a in the mouse brain and spinal cord by quantitative PCR analysis and increased expression of miR-29a in the spinal cord of SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice, a mouse model of familial ALS. In situ hybridisation experiments revealed increased miR-29a expression in the lumbar spinal cord of SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice from postnatal day 70 onward when compared to wild-type mice. miR-29a knockdown was achieved in the CNS in vivo after a single intracerebroventricular injection of a miR-29a-specific antagomir. While analysis of disease progression and motor function could not identify a significant alteration in ALS disease manifestations, a trend towards increased lifespan was observed in male SOD1(G93A) mice. These findings demonstrate that miR-29a may act as a marker for disease progression in SOD1(G93A) mice, and provide first proof-of-concept for a therapeutic modulation of miR-29a function in ALS.	Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Animals;Brain/drug effects/metabolism;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;Oligoribonucleotides/pharmacology;Spinal Cord/drug effects/metabolism;Superoxide Dismutase/genetics/metabolism;Superoxide Dismutase-1
miR-449a causes Rb-dependent cell cycle arrest and senescence in prostate cancer cells	E. J. Noonan, et al.	2010	20948989	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of small non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) that regulate gene expression by repressing translation or triggering the degradation of complementary mRNA sequences. Certain miRNAs have been shown to function as integral components of the p53 and/or retinoblastoma (Rb) regulatory networks. As such, miRNA dysregulation can have a profound effect on cancer development. Previous studies have shown that miR-449a is down-regulated in human prostate cancer tissue and possesses potential tumor suppressor function. In the present study, we identify miR-449a-mediated growth arrest in prostate cancer cells is dependent on the Rb protein. We show that mutant Rb prostate cancer cells (DU- 145) are resistant to cell cycle arrest and cellular senescence induced by miR- 449a, while overexpression of wild-type Rb in DU-145 sublines (DU-1.1 and B5) restores miR-449a function. In silico analysis of 3'UTR regions reveal a putative miR-449a target site in the transcript of Cyclin D1 (CCND1); an oncogene involved in directly regulating Rb activity and cell cycle progression. Luciferase 3'UTR reporter constructs and inhibitory oligonucleotides confirm that Cyclin D1 is a direct downstream target of miR-449a. We also reveal that miR-449a suppresses Rb phosphorylation through the knockdown of Cyclin D1 and previously validated target HDAC1. By targeting genes involved in controlling Rb activity, miR- 449a regulates growth and senescence in an Rb-dependent manner. These data indicate that miR-449a is a miRNA component of the Rb pathway and its tumor suppressor-like effects, in part, depends on Rb status in prostate cancer cells.	3' Untranslated Regions;Apoptosis;Binding Sites;Cell Aging;Cell Cycle;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Cyclin D1/genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Genes, Reporter;Histone Deacetylase 1/genetics/metabolism;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Mutation;Phosphorylation;Prostatic Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;RNA Interference;Retinoblastoma Protein/genetics/ metabolism;Transfection;Ccnd1;Hdac1;Prostate cancer;cellular senescence;miR-449a;miRNA;p27;retinoblastoma
MicroRNA profiling reveals new aspects of HIV neurodegeneration: caspase-6 regulates astrocyte survival	F. Noorbakhsh, et al.	2010	20097875	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNA molecules, which are known to regulate gene expression in physiological and pathological conditions. miRNA profiling was performed using brain tissue from patients with HIV encephalitis (HIVE), a neuroinflammatory/degenerative disorder caused by HIV infection of the brain. Microarray analysis showed differential expression of multiple miRNAs in HIVE compared to control brains. Target prediction and gene ontology enrichment analysis disclosed targeting of several gene families/biological processes by differentially expressed miRNAs (DEMs), with cell death-related genes, including caspase-6, showing a bias toward down-regulated DEMs. Consistent with the miRNA data, HIVE brains exhibited higher levels of caspase-6 transcripts compared with control patients. Immunohistochemical analysis showed localization of the cleaved form of caspase-6 in astrocytes in HIVE brain sections. Exposure of cultured human primary astrocytes to HIV viral protein R (Vpr) induced p53 up-regulation, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, and caspase-6 activation followed by cell injury. Transgenic mice, expressing Vpr in microglial cells, demonstrated astrocyte apoptosis in brain, which was associated with caspase-6 activation and neurobehavioral abnormalities. Overall, these data point to previously unrecognized alterations in miRNA profile in the brain during HIV infection, which contribute to cell death through dysregulation of cell death machinery.	AIDS Dementia Complex/ etiology;Adult;Animals;Astrocytes/ cytology/metabolism;Biomarkers/metabolism;Blotting, Western;Brain/cytology/ metabolism;Calcium Signaling;Caspase 6/genetics/ metabolism;Cell Survival;Female;Fetus/cytology/metabolism;Fluorescent Antibody Technique;Gene Expression Profiling;HIV Infections/ complications/genetics;Hiv-1;Humans;Immunoenzyme Techniques;Male;Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Middle Aged;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;vpr Gene Products, Human Immunodeficiency Virus/ physiology
microRNA expression patterns reveal differential expression of target genes with age	N. Noren Hooten, et al.	2010	20505758	Recent evidence supports a role for microRNAs (miRNAs) in regulating the life span of model organisms. However, little is known about how these small RNAs contribute to human aging. Here, we profiled the expression of over 800 miRNAs in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from young and old individuals by real-time RT-PCR analysis. This genome-wide assessment of miRNA expression revealed that the majority of miRNAs studied decreased in abundance with age. We identified nine miRNAs (miR-103, miR-107, miR-128, miR-130a, miR-155, miR-24, miR-221, miR-496, miR-1538) that were significantly lower in older individuals. Among them, five have been implicated in cancer pathogenesis. Predicted targets of several of these miRNAs, including PI3 kinase (PI3K), c-Kit and H2AX, were found to be elevated with advancing age, supporting a possible role for them in the aging process. Furthermore, we found that decreasing the levels of miR-221 was sufficient to cause a corresponding increase in the expression of the predicted target, PI3K. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that changes in miRNA expression occur with human aging and suggest that miRNAs and their predicted targets have the potential to be diagnostic indicators of age or age-related diseases.	Adult;Aging/ genetics;Animals;Base Sequence;Caenorhabditis elegans/genetics/growth & development;Down-Regulation/genetics;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;HeLa Cells;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;Molecular Sequence Data;Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases/genetics/metabolism;Reproducibility of Results;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction/genetics;Up-Regulation/genetics
Age-related changes in microRNA levels in serum	N. Noren Hooten, et al.	2013	24088671	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs that post-transcriptionally regulate gene expression by targeting specific mRNAs. Altered expression of circulating miRNAs have been associated with age-related diseases including cancer and cardiovascular disease. Although we and others have found an age-dependent decrease in miRNA expression in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), little is known about the role of circulating miRNAs in human aging. Here, we examined miRNA expression in human serum from young (mean age 30 years) and old (mean age 64 years) individuals using next generation sequencing technology and real-time quantitative PCR. Of the miRNAs that we found to be present in serum, three were significantly decreased in 20 older individuals compared to 20 younger individuals: miR-151a-5p, miR-181a-5p and miR-1248. Consistent with our data in humans, these miRNAs are also present at lower levels in the serum of elderly rhesus monkeys. In humans, miR-1248 was found to regulate the expression of mRNAs involved in inflammatory pathways and miR-181a was found to correlate negatively with the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-6 and TNFalpha and to correlate positively with the anti-inflammatory cytokines TGFbeta and IL-10. These results suggest that circulating miRNAs may be a biological marker of aging and could also be important for regulating longevity. Identification of stable miRNA biomarkers in serum could have great potential as a noninvasive diagnostic tool as well as enhance our understanding of physiological changes that occur with age.	Adult;Aged;Aging/ genetics;Animals;Cytokines/blood;Female;HeLa Cells;Humans;Macaca mulatta;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/physiology;Middle Aged
Metformin-mediated increase in DICER1 regulates microRNA expression and cellular senescence	N. Noren Hooten, et al.	2016	26990999	Metformin, an oral hypoglycemic agent, has been used for decades to treat type 2 diabetes mellitus. Recent studies indicate that mice treated with metformin live longer and have fewer manifestations of age-related chronic disease. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this phenotype are unknown. Here, we show that metformin treatment increases the levels of the microRNA-processing protein DICER1 in mice and in humans with diabetes mellitus. Our results indicate that metformin upregulates DICER1 through a post-transcriptional mechanism involving the RNA-binding protein AUF1. Treatment with metformin altered the subcellular localization of AUF1, disrupting its interaction with DICER1 mRNA and rendering DICER1 mRNA stable, allowing DICER1 to accumulate. Consistent with the role of DICER1 in the biogenesis of microRNAs, we found differential patterns of microRNA expression in mice treated with metformin or caloric restriction, two proven life-extending interventions. Interestingly, several microRNAs previously associated with senescence and aging, including miR-20a, miR-34a, miR-130a, miR-106b, miR-125, and let-7c, were found elevated. In agreement with these findings, treatment with metformin decreased cellular senescence in several senescence models in a DICER1-dependent manner. Metformin lowered p16 and p21 protein levels and the abundance of inflammatory cytokines and oncogenes that are hallmarks of the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP). These data lead us to hypothesize that changes in DICER1 levels may be important for organismal aging and to propose that interventions that upregulate DICER1 expression (e.g., metformin) may offer new pharmacotherapeutic approaches for age-related disease.	Adult;Aging/drug effects/genetics;Animals;Caloric Restriction;Cell Aging/drug effects/ genetics;Cell Line;Cell Nucleus/drug effects/metabolism;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/ genetics/metabolism;Demography;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/ drug effects;Heterogeneous-Nuclear Ribonucleoprotein D/metabolism;Humans;Male;Metformin/ pharmacology;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Phenotype;Protein Transport/drug effects;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Ribonuclease III/ genetics/metabolism;Auf1;RNA-binding proteins;aging;diabetes mellitus;microRNA
Clinicopathological and molecular characteristics of serrated lesions in Japanese elderly patients	K. Nosho, et al.	2015	25632919	BACKGROUND: The population in Japan is aging more rapidly than in any other country. However, no studies have determined the characteristics of the large population of elderly patients with colorectal tumors. Therefore, we examined the clinicopathological and molecular features of these tumors in elderly patients. METHODS: In total, 1,627 colorectal tumors (393 serrated lesions, 277 non-serrated adenomas and 957 colorectal cancers) were acquired from patients. Tumor specimens were analyzed for BRAF and KRAS mutations, CpG island methylator phenotype-specific promoters (CACNA1G, CDKN2A, IGF2 and RUNX3), IGFBP7, MGMT, MLH1 and RASSF2 methylation, microsatellite instability (MSI) and microRNA- 31 (miR-31). RESULTS: The frequency of elderly patients (aged >/=75 years) with sessile serrated adenomas (SSAs) with cytological dysplasia was higher than that of those with other serrated lesions and non-serrated adenomas (p < 0.0001). In elderly patients, all SSAs were located in the proximal colon (particularly the cecum to ascending colon). High miR-31 expression, MLH1 methylation and MSI-high status were more frequently detected in SSAs from elderly patients than in those from non-elderly patients. In contrast, no significant differences were found between older age of onset and high-grade dysplasia for traditional serrated adenomas or non-serrated adenomas in any of these molecular alterations. CONCLUSION: In elderly patients, all SSAs were located in the proximal colon. Furthermore, cytological dysplasia and molecular alterations were more frequently detected in elderly patients with SSAs than in non-elderly patients. Thus, careful colonoscopic examinations of the proximal colon are necessary for elderly patients because SSAs in those patients may exhibit malignant potential.	Adenoma/genetics/pathology;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Asian Continental Ancestry Group;Colon/ pathology;Colonic Polyps/classification/genetics/pathology;Colorectal Neoplasms/genetics/pathology;DNA Methylation;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Hyperplasia;Japan;Male;Microsatellite Instability;Mutation;Phenotype
Joint genome-wide profiling of miRNA and mRNA expression in Alzheimer's disease cortex reveals altered miRNA regulation	J. Nunez-Iglesias, et al.	2010	20126538	Although microRNAs are being extensively studied for their involvement in cancer and development, little is known about their roles in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we used microarrays for the first joint profiling and analysis of miRNAs and mRNAs expression in brain cortex from AD and age-matched control subjects. These data provided the unique opportunity to study the relationship between miRNA and mRNA expression in normal and AD brains. Using a non-parametric analysis, we showed that the levels of many miRNAs can be either positively or negatively correlated with those of their target mRNAs. Comparative analysis with independent cancer datasets showed that such miRNA-mRNA expression correlations are not static, but rather context-dependent. Subsequently, we identified a large set of miRNA-mRNA associations that are changed in AD versus control, highlighting AD-specific changes in the miRNA regulatory system. Our results demonstrate a robust relationship between the levels of miRNAs and those of their targets in the brain. This has implications in the study of the molecular pathology of AD, as well as miRNA biology in general.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics;Bayes Theorem;Brain/metabolism/pathology;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Genome-Wide Association Study;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Postmortem Changes;RNA, Messenger/ genetics
The effect of aging of formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues on the in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry signals in cervical lesions	A. J. Nuovo, et al.	2013	23846444	Formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues are widely used in biomedical research but little is known about the effect of the age of the block or unstained slides on the in situ hybridization or immunohistochemistry signal. We compared the in situ-based and immunohistochemistry-based signals for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia samples that ranged from 0 to 15 years of age. There was a progressive and statistically significant decrease in the strength of the p16 signal when comparing tissues prepared from recent unstained slides (0 to 1 y old, mean score of 92%) to those of intermediate age (5 to 7 y old, mean score of 49%) to old unstained slides (cut 13 to 15 y ago, mean score of 10%). Equivalent, progressive, and significant decreases in the intensity of the signals for microRNAs, CD45, and human papillomavirus DNA were seen in tissues stored on slides from 5 to 7 years and 13 to 15 years, respectively. However, the diminution of signal was much less, although still statistically significant, if the sections from the 13- to 15-year-old paraffin blocks were prepared in 2012. The data likely does not represent degradation of the targets as extraction of several microRNA from the old blocks showed no detectable degradation, despite the markedly weakened in situ hybridization signal. It is concluded that in situ-based signal for DNA, microRNAs, and proteins in paraffin-embedded tissues are significantly reduced over time, especially when stored long term on glass slides which, in turn, can lead to a significant underestimation of the amount and presence of the nucleic acid or protein target.	Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p16/analysis/genetics;Female;Formaldehyde/metabolism;Humans;Immunohistochemistry/ methods;In Situ Hybridization/ methods;Paraffin/metabolism;Pathology/ methods;Sensitivity and Specificity;Specimen Handling/ methods;Time Factors;Tissue Embedding;Tissue Fixation;Uterine Cervical Neoplasms/ diagnosis/ pathology
Diagnostic pathology of Alzheimer's disease from routine microscopy to immunohistochemistry and experimental correlations	G. Nuovo, et al.	2017	28648936	The absence of any histologic correlate for Alzheimer's disease despite its commonness and severe clinical sequelae may offers clues to its etiology. Recent evidence strongly suggests that the central event of this disease is the hyperphosphorylation of neuronal tau protein and not the beta amyloid precipitates. In each case, essential and soluble neuronal proteins derivatives form insoluble aggregates that can readily be detected by immunohistochemistry using antibodies specific for the misfolded proteins. Immunohistochemistry also demonstrates that neurons with hyperphosphorylated tau protein are viable. Experimental evidence using neuronal cell cultures suggests that the affected neurons in Alzheimer's disease may have undergone molecular changes that include accumulation of anti-apopotic proteins MCL1 and cFLIP that do not allow the cell to undergo programmed cell death but, rather, to "immortalize" and thus accumulate hyperphosphorylated tau protein in the neuronal cell body and beta amyloid in downstream dendrites. We describe a simplified protocol to demonstrate such changes based on tagged LNA modified microRNA/antimicroRNA oligomers and cell cultures. Co-expression showed that the tagged antimiR-512 strongly localized with the markedly up-regulated proteins MCL1 and cFLIP with concomitant accumulation of hyperphosphorylated tau protein. The data underscore to the anatomic pathologist that the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease is best accomplished by simple immunohistochemistry tests correlated to the clinical history and the key role pathologists can play in understanding the cause of the disease.	Alzheimer's disease;Immunohistochemistry;In situ;MicroRNA;Tau
The Regulation of IGF-1 Gene Transcription and Splicing during Development and Aging	A. M. Oberbauer	2013	23533068	It is commonly known that the insulin-like growth factor-I gene contains six exons that can be differentially spliced to create multiple transcript variants. Further, there are two mutually exclusive leader exons each having multiple promoter sites that are variably used. The mature IGF-I protein derived from the multiplicity of transcripts does not differ suggesting a regulatory role for the various transcript isoforms. The variant forms possess different stabilities, binding partners, and activity indicating a pivotal role for the isoforms. Research has demonstrated differential expression of the IGF-I mRNA transcripts in response to steroids, growth hormone, and developmental cues. Many studies of different tissues have focused on assessing the presence, or putative action, of the transcript isoforms with little consideration of the transcriptional mechanisms that generate the variants or the translational use of the transcript isoforms. Control points for the latter include epigenetic regulation of splicing and promoter usage in response to development or injury, RNA binding proteins and microRNA effects on transcript stability, and preferential use of two leader exons by GH and other hormones. This review will detail the current knowledge of the mechanical, hormonal, and developmental stimuli regulating IGF-1 promoter usage and splicing machinery used to create the variants.	3'-utr;Igf-1;promoter;transcription
Ammonia-induced miRNA expression changes in cultured rat astrocytes	J. Oenarto, et al.	2016	26755400	Hepatic encephalopathy is a neuropsychiatric syndrome evolving from cerebral osmotic disturbances and oxidative/nitrosative stress. Ammonia, the main toxin of hepatic encephalopathy, triggers astrocyte senescence in an oxidative stress-dependent way. As miRNAs are critically involved in cell cycle regulation and their expression may be regulated by oxidative stress, we analysed, whether astrocyte senescence is a consequence of ammonia-induced miRNA expression changes. Using a combined miRNA and gene microarray approach, 43 miRNA species which were downregulated and 142 genes which were upregulated by NH4Cl (5 mmol/l, 48 h) in cultured rat astrocytes were found. Ammonia-induced miRNA and gene expression changes were validated by qPCR and 43 potential miRNA target genes, including HO-1, were identified by matching upregulated mRNA species with predicted targets of miRNA species downregulated by ammonia. Inhibition of HO-1 targeting miRNAs which were downregulated by NH4Cl strongly upregulated HO-1 mRNA and protein levels and inhibited astrocyte proliferation in a HO-1-dependent way. Preventing ammonia-induced upregulation of HO-1 by taurine (5 mmol/l) as well as blocking HO-1 activity by tin-protoporphyrine IX fully prevented ammonia-induced proliferation inhibition and senescence. The data suggest that ammonia induces astrocyte senescence through NADPH oxidase-dependent downregulation of HO-1 targeting miRNAs and concomitant upregulation of HO-1 at both mRNA and protein level.	Ammonia/ pharmacology;Animals;Astrocytes/ drug effects/ metabolism;Cell Aging/drug effects/genetics;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Cluster Analysis;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation/ drug effects;Glutamine/biosynthesis;Heme Oxygenase-1/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics;NADPH Oxidase/metabolism;Rats;Reproducibility of Results
A NOTCH3-mediated squamous cell differentiation program limits expansion of EMT-competent cells that express the ZEB transcription factors	S. Ohashi, et al.	2011	21890822	Zinc finger E-box-binding (ZEB) proteins ZEB1 and ZEB2 are transcription factors essential in TGF-beta-mediated senescence, epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), and cancer stem cell functions. ZEBs are negatively regulated by members of the miR-200 microRNA family, but precisely how tumor cells expressing ZEBs emerge during invasive growth remains unknown. Here, we report that NOTCH3-mediated signaling prevents expansion of a unique subset of ZEB-expressing cells. ZEB expression was associated with the lack of cellular capability of undergoing NOTCH3-mediated squamous differentiation in human esophageal cells. Genetic inhibition of the Notch-mediated transcriptional activity by dominant-negative Mastermind-like 1 (DNMAML1) prevented squamous differentiation and induction of Notch target genes including NOTCH3. Moreover, DNMAML1-enriched EMT-competent cells exhibited robust upregulation of ZEBs, downregulation of the miR-200 family, and enhanced anchorage-independent growth and tumor formation in nude mice. RNA interference experiments suggested the involvement of ZEBs in anchorage-independent colony formation, invasion, and TGF-beta-mediated EMT. Invasive growth and impaired squamous differentiation were recapitulated upon Notch inhibition by DNMAML1 in organotypic three-dimensional culture, a form of human tissue engineering. Together, our findings indicate that NOTCH3 is a key factor limiting the expansion of ZEB-expressing cells, providing novel mechanistic insights into the role of Notch signaling in the cell fate regulation and disease progression of esophageal squamous cancers.	Animals;Cadherins/biosynthesis/genetics;Carcinoma, Squamous Cell/genetics/ pathology;Cell Division;Cell Line, Tumor;DNA-Binding Proteins/physiology;Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition/genetics/ physiology;Esophageal Neoplasms/genetics/ pathology;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Homeodomain Proteins/ physiology;Humans;Mice;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/genetics;Neoplasm Proteins/biosynthesis/genetics/ physiology;Neoplasm Transplantation;RNA Interference;RNA, Neoplasm/biosynthesis/genetics;RNA, Small Interfering/pharmacology;Receptor, Notch3;Receptors, Notch/ physiology;Recombinant Fusion Proteins/physiology;Repressor Proteins/ physiology;Signal Transduction;Transcription Factors/ physiology;Tumor Stem Cell Assay;Zinc Finger E-box-Binding Homeobox 1
MicroRNA-494 suppresses cell proliferation and induces senescence in A549 lung cancer cells	H. Ohdaira, et al.	2012	22151897	OBJECTIVES: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small functional RNAs that regulate mRNAs for degradation or translational suppression. In the present study, we aimed to reveal functional importance of miRNA-494 (miR-494) in A549 human lung cancer cells. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We established A549 cells that constitutively expressed miR-494. Next, we sought to investigate insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA-binding protein 1 (IGF2BP1) mRNA as an miR-494 target. For this, we constructed a reporter plasmid bearing potential miR-494 binding sequences derived from the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of IGF2BP1 mRNA in the 3'-UTR of the luciferase gene. RESULTS: Through comparison between miR-494 expressing cells and control cells, we revealed that miR-494 suppressed cell proliferation and colony forming activity, and induced senescence. Reporter activity was inhibited by miR-494. In addition, IGF2BP1 mRNA levels were down-regulated in A549 cells that constitutively expressed miR-494. IGF2BP1 has been shown to bind and suppress IGF2 mRNA, and this could be a reason why IGF2BP1 can regulate cell function. Therefore, we analysed IGF2 mRNA levels and revealed that IGF2 was up-regulated in A549 cells that constitutively expressed miR-494. Finally, elevated IGF2 mRNA levels in A549 cells that constitutively expressed miR-494 were suppressed to basal level by an miR-494 inhibitor. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, IGF2BP1 and its downstream target IGF2 could be a crucial axis for miR-494 in regulation of the destiny of A549 cells.	Apoptosis;Base Sequence;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;DNA Primers/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Insulin-Like Growth Factor II/genetics;Lung Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism/ pathology;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;RNA, Neoplasm/ genetics/metabolism;RNA-Binding Proteins/genetics;Transformation, Genetic;Tumor Stem Cell Assay
At the intersection of non-coding transcription, DNA repair, chromatin structure, and cellular senescence	R. Ohsawa, et al.	2013	23967007	It is well accepted that non-coding RNAs play a critical role in regulating gene expression. Recent paradigm-setting studies are now revealing that non-coding RNAs, other than microRNAs, also play intriguing roles in the maintenance of chromatin structure, in the DNA damage response, and in adult human stem cell aging. In this review, we will discuss the complex inter-dependent relationships among non-coding RNA transcription, maintenance of genomic stability, chromatin structure, and adult stem cell senescence. DNA damage-induced non-coding RNAs transcribed in the vicinity of the DNA break regulate recruitment of the DNA damage machinery and DNA repair efficiency. We will discuss the correlation between non-coding RNAs and DNA damage repair efficiency and the potential role of changing chromatin structures around double-strand break sites. On the other hand, induction of non-coding RNA transcription from the repetitive Alu elements occurs during human stem cell aging and hinders efficient DNA repair causing entry into senescence. We will discuss how this fine balance between transcription and genomic instability may be regulated by the dramatic changes to chromatin structure that accompany cellular senescence.	aging;chromatin;genomic instability;non-coding RNA;senescence
Age-related decrease of miRNA-92a levels in human CD8+ T-cells correlates with a reduction of naive T lymphocytes	M. Ohyashiki, et al.	2011	22082184	MicroRNA (miR)-17-92a expression plays a crucial role in lymphocyte ontogeny. We therefore set out to determine miR-92a expression levels in peripheral blood lymphocytes from healthy subjects to ascertain any association between these levels and ageing. We found a positive correlation between the miR-92a expression level and the percentages of RO-CD8+CD27+ (P = 0.0046) and CD3+CD8+CD62L+ (P = 0.0011). This suggests that the majority of miR-92a of CD8+ T cells is derived from naive cells, and the miR-92a expression level in CD8+ T cells declines progressively with age. These results indicate that the age-related attrition of naive T cells is linked to a reduction of miR-92a in human T -lymphocytes. Therefore, we should careful attention when evaluating human miRNA levels in T lymphocytes to use normal control values.	
Abrogation of Age-Induced MicroRNA-195 Rejuvenates the Senescent Mesenchymal Stem Cells by Reactivating Telomerase	M. Okada, et al.	2016	26390028	Previously, we reported that a novel subpopulation of young mesenchymal stem cells (YMSCs) existed in old bone marrow, which possessed high antiaging properties as well as excellent efficacy for cardiac repair. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as key regulators in post-transcriptional gene expression programs, and however, it is unknown whether miRNAs directly control stem cell senescence. Here we present the first evidence that miR-195 overexpressed in old MSCs (OMSCs) induces stem cell senescence deteriorating their regenerative ability by directly deactivating telomerase reverse transcriptase (Tert), and abrogation of miR-195 can reverse stem cell aging. MiRNAs profiling analysis in YMSCs and OMSCs by microarray showed that miR-140, miR-146a/b, and miR-195 were significantly upregulated in OMSCs, which led us to hypothesize that these are age-induced miRNAs involved in stem cell senescence. Of these miRNAs, we found miR-195 directly targeted 3'-untranslated region of Tert gene by computational target prediction analysis and luciferase assay, and knockdown of miR-195 significantly increased Tert expression in OMSCs. Strikingly, miR-195 inhibition significantly induced telomere relengthening in OMSCs along with reduced expression of senescence-associated beta-galactosidase. Moreover, silencing miR-195 in OMSCs by transfection of miR-195 inhibitor significantly restored antiaging factors expression including Tert and Sirt1 as well as phosphorylation of Akt and FOXO1. Notably, abrogation of miR-195 markedly restored proliferative abilities in OMSCs. Transplantation of OMSCs with knocked out miR-195 reduced infarction size and improved LV function. In conclusion, rejuvenation of aged stem cells by miR-195 inhibition would be a promising autologous therapeutic strategy for cardiac repair in the elderly patients.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Base Sequence;Biomarkers/metabolism;Cell Aging/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Mesenchymal Stem Cell Transplantation;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ cytology/ metabolism;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Telomerase/ metabolism;Treatment Outcome;Up-Regulation/genetics;Wound Healing;Aging;Heart;Stem cells;Telomerase;miR-195
TAR DNA-Binding protein 43 accumulation in protein aggregate myopathies	M. Olive, et al.	2009	19225410	Protein aggregate myopathies, including myofibrillar myopathies and sporadic inclusion body myositis (sIBM), are characterized by abnormal protein aggregates composed of various muscular and ectopic proteins. Previous studies have shown the crucial role ofdysregulated transcription factors such as neuron-restrictive silencerfactor in the expression of aberrant proteins in myotilinopathies. Here, we assessed possible aberrant expression of TAR DNA-bindingprotein 43 (TDP-43), another factor involved in transcription regulation. TDP-43-immunoreactive intracytoplasmic inclusions were seen in all cases examined of myotilinopathy, desminopathy, and sIBM, and in 1 case of inclusion body myositis with Paget disease of bone and frontotemporal degeneration (IBMPFD). TAR DNA-binding protein 43 colocalized with myotilin and valosin in myotilinopathies and IBMPFD, respectively, but only occasionally colocalized with ubiquitin in myotilinopathies, desminopathies, sIBM, and IBMPFD; this indicates that accumulated TDP-43 is largely not ubiquitinated. Moreover, phosphorylated TDP-43 at Ser403/404 and Ser409/410 accumulated in the cytoplasm of vulnerable fibers but did not always colocalize with nonphosphorylated TDP-43. Cytoplasmic deposition was accompanied by decreased TDP-43 localization in the nuclei of affected fibers. These findings indicate that TDP-43 not only is another protein accumulated in myofibrillar myopathies, sIBM, and IBMPFD but also likely has a role through altered microRNA processing in the abnormal protein production, modification, and accumulation in protein aggregate myopathies.	Adult;Aged;Blotting, Western;Connectin;Cytoskeletal Proteins/metabolism;DNA-Binding Proteins/ metabolism;Dementia;Female;Fluorescent Antibody Technique;Gene Expression;Humans;Male;Microscopy, Confocal;Middle Aged;Muscle Proteins/metabolism;Muscle, Skeletal/ metabolism/pathology;Myositis, Inclusion Body/ metabolism/pathology;Peptides/metabolism;Phosphorylation;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Ubiquitin/metabolism
Dicer1-miR-328-Bace1 signalling controls brown adipose tissue differentiation and function	M. Oliverio, et al.	2016	26900752	Activation of brown adipose tissue (BAT) controls energy homeostasis in rodents and humans and has emerged as an innovative strategy for the treatment of obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Here we show that ageing- and obesity-associated dysfunction of brown fat coincides with global microRNA downregulation due to reduced expression of the microRNA-processing node Dicer1. Consequently, heterozygosity of Dicer1 in BAT aggravated diet-induced-obesity (DIO)-evoked deterioration of glucose metabolism. Analyses of differential microRNA expression during preadipocyte commitment and mouse models of progeria, longevity and DIO identified miR-328 as a regulator of BAT differentiation. Reducing miR-328 blocked preadipocyte commitment, whereas miR-328 overexpression instigated BAT differentiation and impaired muscle progenitor commitment-partly through silencing of the beta-secretase Bace1. Loss of Bace1 enhanced brown preadipocyte specification in vitro and was overexpressed in BAT of obese and progeroid mice. In vivo Bace1 inhibition delayed DIO-induced weight gain and improved glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity. These experiments reveal Dicer1-miR-328-Bace1 signalling as a determinant of BAT function, and highlight the potential of Bace1 inhibition as a therapeutic approach to improve not only neurodegenerative diseases but also ageing- and obesity-associated impairments of BAT function.	Adipose Tissue, Brown/ metabolism;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/ genetics/metabolism;Cell Differentiation/ physiology;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/ genetics/metabolism;Energy Metabolism/physiology;Homeostasis/physiology;Insulin Resistance/physiology;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Obesity/genetics/metabolism;Ribonuclease III/ genetics/metabolism
Hormone replacement therapy enhances IGF-1 signaling in skeletal muscle by diminishing miR-182 and miR-223 expressions: a study on postmenopausal monozygotic twin pairs	F. Olivieri, et al.	2014	25040542	MiRNAs are fine-tuning modifiers of skeletal muscle regulation, but knowledge of their hormonal control is lacking. We used a co-twin case-control study design, that is, monozygotic postmenopausal twin pairs discordant for estrogen-based hormone replacement therapy (HRT) to explore estrogen-dependent skeletal muscle regulation via miRNAs. MiRNA profiles were determined from vastus lateralis muscle of nine healthy 54-62-years-old monozygotic female twin pairs discordant for HRT (median 7 years). MCF-7 cells, human myoblast cultures and mouse muscle experiments were used to confirm estrogen's causal role on the expression of specific miRNAs, their target mRNAs and proteins and finally the activation of related signaling pathway. Of the 230 miRNAs expressed at detectable levels in muscle samples, qPCR confirmed significantly lower miR-182, miR-223 and miR-142-3p expressions in HRT using than in their nonusing co-twins. Insulin/IGF-1 signaling emerged one common pathway targeted by these miRNAs. IGF-1R and FOXO3A mRNA and protein were more abundantly expressed in muscle samples of HRT users than nonusers. In vitro assays confirmed effective targeting of miR-182 and miR-223 on IGF-1R and FOXO3A mRNA as well as a dose-dependent miR-182 and miR-223 down-regulations concomitantly with up-regulation of FOXO3A and IGF-1R expression. Novel finding is the postmenopausal HRT-reduced miRs-182, miR-223 and miR-142-3p expression in female skeletal muscle. The observed miRNA-mediated enhancement of the target genes' IGF-1R and FOXO3A expression as well as the activation of insulin/IGF-1 pathway signaling via phosphorylation of AKT and mTOR is an important mechanism for positive estrogen impact on skeletal muscle of postmenopausal women.	Age Factors;Aged;Animals;Case-Control Studies;Female;Hormone Replacement Therapy/ methods;Humans;Insulin-Like Growth Factor I/ metabolism;MCF-7 Cells;Male;Mice;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/ biosynthesis;Middle Aged;Muscle, Skeletal/ metabolism;Postmenopause/drug effects/genetics/ metabolism;Signal Transduction;Twins, Monozygotic;Akt;Foxo3a;IGF-1 signaling;Igf-1r;aging;mTOR;menopause;miR-142-3p;miR-182;miR-223;phosphorylation
Admission levels of circulating miR-499-5p and risk of death in elderly patients after acute non-ST elevation myocardial infarction	F. Olivieri, et al.	2014	24461971		Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Biomarkers/blood;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood;Myocardial Infarction/ blood/diagnosis/ mortality;Patient Admission/trends;Risk Factors;Survival Rate/trends;Acute myocardial infarction;Elderly patients;MiR-499-5p;MicroRNA;Prognosis
MiR-146a as marker of senescence-associated pro-inflammatory status in cells involved in vascular remodelling	F. Olivieri, et al.	2013	22692818	In order to identify new markers of vascular cell senescence with potential in vivo implications, primary cultured endothelial cells, including human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs), human aortic endothelial cells (HAECs), human coronary artery endothelial cells (HCAECs) and ex vivo circulating angiogenic cells (CACs), were analysed for microRNA (miR) expression. Among the 367 profiled miRs in HUVECs, miR-146a, miR-9, miR-204 and miR-367 showed the highest up-regulation in senescent cells. Their predicted target genes belong to nine common pathways, including Toll-like receptor signalling (TLR) that plays a pivotal role in inflammatory response, a key feature of senescence (inflammaging). MiR-146a was the most up-regulated miR in the validation analysis (>10-fold). Mimic and antagomir transfection confirmed TLR's IL-1 receptor-associated kinase (IRAK1) protein modulation in both young and senescent cells. Significant correlations were observed among miR-146a expression and beta-galactosidase expression, telomere length and telomerase activity. MiR-146a hyper-expression was also validated in senescent HAECs (>4-fold) and HCAECs (>30-fold). We recently showed that CACs from patients with chronic heart failure (CHF) presented a distinguishing feature of senescence. Therefore, we also included miR-146a expression determination in CACs from 37 CHF patients and 35 healthy control subjects (CTR) for this study. Interestingly, a 1,000-fold increased expression of miR-146a was observed in CACs of CHF patients compared to CTR, along with decreased expression of IRAK1 protein. Moreover, significant correlations among miR-146a expression, telomere length and telomerase activity were observed. Overall, our findings indicate that miR-146a is a marker of a senescence-associated pro-inflammatory status in vascular remodelling cells.	Biomarkers/metabolism;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cells, Cultured;Claudin-1/ genetics/metabolism;Endothelium, Vascular/ metabolism/pathology;Gene Expression Regulation;Heart Failure/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Humans;Inflammation/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;RNA/genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction/genetics;Telomere/genetics/metabolism;Tissue Array Analysis
Toll like receptor signaling in "inflammaging": microRNA as new players	F. Olivieri, et al.	2013	23506673	The age-related changes of immune system functions are complex phenomena incompletely understood. The acquired immune system shows a functional decline in ability to respond to new pathogens during aging, whereas serum levels of inflammatory cytokines are increased with age. The source of this age-related systemic chronic inflammation, named inflammaging, was mainly attributed to the progressive activation of immune cells over time. However, recent studies have shown that the process of cellular senescence can be an important additional contributor to chronic inflammation, since senescent cells acquire a phenotype named "senescence-associated secretory phenotype" (SASP), characterized by the enhanced secretion of many inflammation modulators. Pathogen-associated molecular pattern receptors, in particular Toll-like receptors (TLRs), are key molecules in the response of innate immunity cells to pathological stimuli. An intriguing and innovative hypothesis is that the dysfunction of TLRs signaling and the acquisition of SASP can be two interconnected phenomena. The TLR family, including receptors and co-effector molecules, do not show a consistent age-dependent change across model systems. However, there is evidence for impaired downstream signaling events, including inhibition of positive and activation of negative modulators of TLR signaling. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a newly discovered class of gene regulators acting as post-transcriptional repressors of a number of genes. The miRNA property to finely-tune gene expression makes them right for immune system regulation, which requires precise control for proper activity. We reviewed evidences suggesting that miRNAs can modulate TLR signaling mainly by three different mechanisms: 1) miRNAs can directly target components of the TLR signaling system, 2) miRNA expression can be directly regulated by TLRs pathway activation and 3) miRNAs can directly activate the RNA-sensing TLRs, like TLR-8, in humans. We also reviewed how TLR signaling is modulated by miRNAs during aging, and how an impaired miRNAs/TLR signaling interaction in immune system cells and related cells, i.e. endothelial cells and adipocytes, can contribute to inflammaging observed in normal aging. Interestingly, this impairment appears accelerated in presence of the majors age-related diseases, such as cardiovascular diseases, diabetes, neurodegenerative diseases and cancers.	
Circulating inflamma-miRs in aging and age-related diseases	F. Olivieri, et al.	2013	23805154	Evidence on circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) is indisputably opening a new era in systemic and tissue-specific biomarker research, highlighting new inter-cellular and inter-organ communication mechanisms. Circulating miRNAs might be active messengers eliciting a systemic response as well as non-specific "by-products" of cell activity and even of cell death; in either case they have the potential to be clinically relevant biomarkers for a number of physiopathological processes, including inflammatory responses and inflammation-related conditions. A large amount of evidence indicates that miRNAs can exert two opposite roles, activating as well as inhibiting inflammatory pathways. The inhibitory action probably relates to the need for activating anti-inflammatory mechanisms to counter potent proinflammatory signals, like the nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) pathway, to prevent cell and tissue destruction. MiRNA-based anti-inflammatory mechanisms may acquire a crucial role during aging, where a chronic, low-level proinflammatory status is likely sustained by the cell senescence secretome and by progressive activation of immune cells over time. This process entails age-related changes, especially in extremely old age, in those circulating miRNAs that are capable of modulating the inflammatory status (inflamma-miRs). Interestingly, a number of such circulating miRNAs seem to be promising biomarkers for the major age-related diseases that share a common chronic, low-level proinflammatory status, such as cardiovascular disease (CVD), type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), Alzheimer Disease (AD), rheumatoid arthritis (RA), and cancers.	NF-kappaB signaling;age-related diseases;cellular senescence;circulating miRs;inflammation mediators
Age-related differences in the expression of circulating microRNAs: miR-21 as a new circulating marker of inflammaging	F. Olivieri, et al.	2012	23041385	Circulating microRNAs (miRs) have been investigated as diagnostic/prognostic biomarkers in human diseases. However, little is known about their expression throughout the aging process. Eleven healthy individuals aged 20, 80 and 100 years underwent miR plasma profiling. The validation cohort consisted of 111 healthy adults (CTR) aged 20-105 years and included 30 centenarians. In addition, 34 patients with cardiovascular disease (CVD) and 15 healthy centenarian offspring (CO) were enrolled. An exploratory factorial analysis grouped the miRs into three main factors: factor 1 primarily higher in 20-year-old subjects, but these differences did not reach statistical significance, factor 2 primarily higher in octogenarians and factor 3 primarily higher in centenarians. MiR-21, the most highly expressed miR of factors 2 and 3, was further validated, confirming the differences in the age groups. MiR-21 expression was higher in the CVD patients and lower in the CO compared to the age-matched CTR. MiR-21 was correlated with C-reactive protein and fibrinogen levels. TGF-beta signaling was the predicted common pathway targeted by miRs of factors 2 and 3. TGF-betaR2 mRNA, a validated miR-21 target, showed the highest expression in the leukocytes from a subset of the octogenarians. Our findings suggest that miR-21 may be a new biomarker of inflammation.	Adult;Age Factors;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging;Biomarkers/metabolism;C-Reactive Protein/biosynthesis;Cardiovascular Diseases/metabolism;Cohort Studies;Fibrinogen/biosynthesis;Humans;Inflammation;MicroRNAs/ blood/metabolism;Middle Aged;Models, Statistical;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases/metabolism;Receptors, Transforming Growth Factor beta/metabolism
CBX7 and miR-9 are part of an autoregulatory loop controlling p16(INK) (4a)	A. O'Loghlen, et al.	2015	26416703	Polycomb repressive complexes (PRC1 and PRC2) are epigenetic regulators that act in coordination to influence multiple cellular processes including pluripotency, differentiation, cancer and senescence. The role of PRCs in senescence can be mostly explained by their ability to repress the INK4/ARF locus. CBX7 is one of five mammalian orthologues of Drosophila Polycomb that forms part of PRC1. Despite the relevance of CBX7 for regulating senescence and pluripotency, we have a limited understanding of how the expression of CBX7 is regulated. Here we report that the miR-9 family of microRNAs (miRNAS) downregulates the expression of CBX7. In turn, CBX7 represses miR-9-1 and miR-9-2 as part of a regulatory negative feedback loop. The miR-9/CBX7 feedback loop is a regulatory module contributing to induction of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor (CDKI) p16(INK4a) during senescence. The ability of the miR-9 family to regulate senescence could have implications for understanding the role of miR-9 in cancer and aging.	Aging/ genetics;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Differentiation/genetics;Cell Line;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p16/ genetics/metabolism;Down-Regulation/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation/ genetics;HEK293 Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Polycomb Repressive Complex 1/ biosynthesis/genetics;Cbx7;Polycomb;miR-9;p16INK4a;senescence
Identification of miRNAs in C. roseus and their potential targets	A. Omer, et al.	2012	22359439	MicroRNAs are small (20-22 nucleotides) none coding, regulatory RNAs, whose pivotal role in gene expression has been associated in number of diseases, therefore prediction of miRNA is an essential yet challenging field. In this study miRNAs of C. roseus are predicted along with their possible target genes. A total of 19,899 ESTs were downloaded from dbEST database and processed and trimmed through SeqClean. Nine sequences were trashed and 31 sequences were trimmed by the program and the resulting sequences were submitted to Repeatmasker and TGICL for clustering and assembly. This contig database was now used to find the putative miRNAs by performing a local BLAST with the miRNAs of B. rapa retrieved from miRBase. The targets were scanned by hybridizing screened ESTs with the UTRs of human using miRanda software. Finally, 7 putative miRNAs were found to hybridize with the various targets of signal transduction and apoptosis that may play significant role in preventing diseases like Leukemia, Arthritis and Alzheimer.	
MicroRNA-203 regulates caveolin-1 in breast tissue during caloric restriction	U. A. Orom, et al.	2012	22421148	Caloric restriction has been shown to increase lifespan in several organisms and to delay onset of age-related diseases. The transcriptional response to caloric restriction has been studied for mRNAs, while the microRNA signature following caloric restriction remains unexplored. Here, we characterize the microRNA expression in mouse breast tissue before and after caloric restriction, reporting several changes in the microRNA expression profile. In particular, miR-203 is found to be highly induced by caloric restriction, and we demonstrate that caveolin-1 as well as p63 are direct targets of miR-203 in vivo during caloric restriction. Using tissue culture models, we suggest that this regulation is important in both mouse and human. In conclusion, we show that the microRNA response induced by caloric restriction can regulate important factors in processes such as longevity and aging and is an integral and important component of the cellular response to caloric restriction.	3' Untranslated Regions;Aging/genetics;Animals;Caloric Restriction;Caveolin 1/genetics/ metabolism;Cell Line;Female;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Mammary Glands, Animal/ metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Phosphoproteins/metabolism;Trans-Activators/metabolism
Modulating the MicroRNArchitecture of an aging aorta	J. R. O'Rourke and E. N. Olson	2011	22034476		Animals;Aorta/ metabolism;Aortic Aneurysm/ genetics;Humans;MicroRNAs/ analysis/ metabolism
Signature of circulating microRNAs in patients with acute heart failure	E. S. Ovchinnikova, et al.	2016	26345695	AIMS: Our aim was to identify circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) associated with acute heart failure (AHF). METHODS AND RESULTS: Plasma miRNA profiling included 137 patients with AHF from 3 different cohorts, 20 with chronic heart failure (CHF), 8 with acute exacerbation of COPD, and 41 healthy controls. Levels of circulating miRNAs were measured using quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Plasma levels of miRNAs in patients with AHF were decreased compared with CHF patients or healthy subjects, whereas no significant changes were observed between acute COPD patients and controls. Fifteen miRNAs found in the discovery phase to differ most significantly between healthy controls and patients with AHF were further investigated in an extended cohort of 100 AHF patients at admission and a separate cohort of 18 AHF patients at different time points. Out of these 15 miRNAs, 12 could be confirmed in an additional AHF validation cohort and 7 passed the Bonferroni correction threshold (miR-18a-5p, miR-26b-5p, miR-27a-3p, miR-30e-5p, miR-106a-5p, miR-199a-3p, and miR-652-3p, all P < 0.00005). A further drop in miRNA levels within 48 h after AHF admission was associated with an increased risk of 180-day mortality in a subset of the identified miRNAs. CONCLUSIONS: Declining levels of circulating miRNAs were associated with increasing acuity of heart failure. Early in-hospital decreasing miRNA levels were predictive for mortality in a subset of miRNAs in patients with AHF. The discovered miRNA panel may serve as a launch-pad for molecular pathway studies to identify new pharmacological targets and miRNA-based therapies.	Biomarkers;Circulating microRNAs;Heart failure
Cellular senescence mediated by p16INK4A-coupled miRNA pathways	M. G. Overhoff, et al.	2014	24217920	p16 is a key regulator of cellular senescence, yet the drivers of this stable state of proliferative arrest are not well understood. Here, we identify 22 senescence-associated microRNAs (SA-miRNAs) in normal human mammary epithelial cells. We show that SA-miRNAs-26b, 181a, 210 and 424 function in concert to directly repress expression of Polycomb group (PcG) proteins CBX7, embryonic ectoderm development (EED), enhancer of zeste homologue 2 (EZH2) and suppressor of zeste 12 homologue (Suz12), thereby activating p16. We demonstrate the existence of a tight positive feedback loop in which SA-miRNAs activate and re-enforce the expression of other SA-miRNA members. In contrast, PcG members restrain senescence by epigenetically repressing the expression of these SA-miRNAs. Importantly, loss of p16 leads to repression of SA-miRNA expression, intimately coupling this effector of senescence to the SA-miRNA/PcG self-regulatory loop. Taken together, our findings illuminate an important regulatory axis that underpins the transition from proliferation to cellular senescence.	Cell Aging/ genetics;Cells, Cultured;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p16/ metabolism;Epigenesis, Genetic;Feedback, Physiological;Fibroblasts/cytology/metabolism;Gene Silencing;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Polycomb-Group Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Young Adult
MiR-30 family and EMT in human fetal pancreatic islets	S. Ozcan	2009	21099286	Small, non-coding ribonucleotides called micro RNAs (miRNAs) have recently emerged as important regulators of cell function. MiRNAs regulate gene expression mainly by binding to the 3' UTR of mRNAs and thereby inhibit the translation of target mRNAs. The abundance of many miRNAs is altered under physiological and pathophysiological conditions, such as cancer and neurodegeneration. Recent data suggest that miRNAs also have an important role in regulation of insulin gene transcription, insulin secretion, and pancreatic islet cell function. An interesting study by Joglekar et al. published in this issue of ISLETS suggests that the miR-30 family of miRNAs may control the epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition of primary cultures of human pancreatic epithelial cells by negatively regulating the translation of mesenchymal gene transcripts such as vimentin. These findings are in agreement with previous data that suggest an important role for one of the miR-30 family members (miR-30d) in insulin gene expression in pancreatic beta cells. In summary, the report by Joglekar et al provides a significant advancement in understanding the role of miRNAs in pancreatic islet development and suggests that manipulation of miR-30 family of miRNA expression may provide an important means to generate and expand pancreatic beta cells from human fetal pancreatic progenitors.	Cell Differentiation/genetics;Epithelial Cells/metabolism/ physiology;Fetus/metabolism;Humans;Islets of Langerhans/ embryology/metabolism/physiology;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/metabolism/ physiology;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism/ physiology;Models, Biological;Multigene Family/physiology;Organogenesis/genetics
The bifunctional microRNA miR-9/miR-9* regulates REST and CoREST and is downregulated in Huntington's disease	A. N. Packer, et al.	2008	19118166	The transcription factor REST silences neuronal gene expression in non-neuronal cells. In neurons, the protein is sequestered in the cytoplasm in part through binding to huntingtin. Polyglutamine expansions in huntingtin, which causes Huntington's disease (HD), abrogates REST-huntingtin binding. Consequently, REST translocates to the nucleus, occupies RE1 repressor sequences and decreases neuronal gene expression. In this work, we found that levels of several microRNAs (miRNAs) with upstream RE1 sites are decreased in HD patient cortices relative to healthy controls. Interestingly, one of these, the bifunctional brain enriched miR-9/miR-9*, targets two components of the REST complex: miR-9 targets REST and miR-9* targets CoREST. These data provide evidence for a double negative feedback loop between the REST silencing complex and the miRNAs it regulates.	3' Untranslated Regions/physiology;Aged;Brain/ metabolism;Cell Line, Transformed;Co-Repressor Proteins;DNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Disease Progression;Dose-Response Relationship, Drug;Down-Regulation/drug effects/ physiology;Female;Humans;Huntington Disease/genetics/metabolism/pathology/ physiopathology;Male;MicroRNAs/pharmacology/ physiology;Middle Aged;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Postmortem Changes;Repressor Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Transfection/methods
Single nucleotide polymorphisms in the 3'UTR of VPAC-1 cooperate in modulating gene expression and impact differently on the interaction with miR525-5p	F. Paladini, et al.	2014	25390694	Complex immune and neurodegenerative disorders are the result of multiple interactions between common genetic variations having, individually, a weak effect on the disease susceptibility or resistance. Interestingly, some genes have been found to be associated with more than one disease although not necessarily the same SNPs are involved. In this context, single nucleotide polymorphisms in the 3'UTR region of type 1 receptor (VPAC-1) for vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) have been reported to be associated with some immune-mediated as well as with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Here, we demonstrate that variations at the 3'UTR of the VPAC-1 gene act synergistically to affect the expression of the luciferase as well as of the GFP reporter genes expressed in HEK293T cells. Moreover, the miRNA 525-5p, previously shown by us to target the 3'UTR of VPAC-1, is more efficient in decreasing GFP expression when co-expressed with constructs carrying the allele C at rs896 (p<10(-3)) suggesting that this miRNA regulates VPAC-1 expression at different levels depending on rs896 polymorphism and thus adding complexity to the network of disease susceptibility.	3' Untranslated Regions;Alleles;Gene Expression Regulation;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Luciferases/genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Receptors, Vasoactive Intestinal Polypeptide, Type I/ genetics
miRNA deregulation by epigenetic silencing disrupts suppression of the oncogene PLAG1 in chronic lymphocytic leukemia	C. P. Pallasch, et al.	2009	19692702	MicroRNAs (miRNA) play a key role in cellular regulation and, if deregulated, in the development of neoplastic disorders including chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). RNAs from primary cells of 50 treatment-naive CLL patients and peripheral B cells of 14 healthy donors were applied to miRNA expression profiling using bead chip technology. In CLL cells, a set of 7 up- and 19 down-regulated miRNAs was identified. Among the miRNAs down-regulated in CLL cells, 6 of 10 miRNA promoters examined showed gain of methylation compared with normal B-cell controls. Subsequent target prediction of deregulated miRNAs revealed a highly significant binding prediction at the 3' untranslated region of the pleomorphic adenoma gene 1 (PLAG1) oncogene. Luciferase reporter assays including site-directed mutagenesis of binding sites revealed a significant regulation of PLAG1 by miR-181a, miR-181b, miR-107, and miR-424. Although expression of PLAG1 mRNA was not affected, PLAG1 protein expression was shown to be significantly elevated in CLL cells compared with the levels in healthy donor B cells. In summary, we could demonstrate disruption of miRNA-mediated translational control, partly due to epigenetic transcriptional silencing of miRNAs, with subsequent overexpression of the oncogenic transcription factor PLAG1 as a putative novel mechanism of CLL pathogenesis.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;B-Lymphocytes/metabolism;DNA-Binding Proteins/ biosynthesis/genetics;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Gene Silencing;Humans;Leukemia, Lymphocytic, Chronic, B-Cell/genetics/ metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Oncogene Proteins/ biosynthesis/genetics;Promoter Regions, Genetic/genetics;RNA Stability;RNA, Neoplasm/genetics/ metabolism;Transcription, Genetic/genetics
MicroRNA-200a is up-regulated in aged rats with erectile dysfunction and could attenuate endothelial function via SIRT1 inhibition	F. Pan, et al.	2016	25966629	MiR-200a was shown to be upregulated in the corpus cavernosum (CC) of rats with aging-related erectile dysfunction (A-ED) in our previous study. Among its target genes, SIRT1 was also reported as a protective factor in erectile function by our groups previously. Thus, miR-200a might attenuate the erectile function in A-ED via SIRT1 inhibition. In the present study, three animal groups were included: aged rats with ED (group AE, n = 8), aged rats with normal erectile function (group AN, n = 8), and young rats as normal controls (group YN, n = 8). CCs from each group were collected for histological and molecular measurements to validate the dysregulation of miR-200a and SIRT1. After that, the cavernous endothelial cells (CECs) from CC of aged rats with normal erectile function were transfected with miR-200a in vitro. Then the expression of SIRT1 and molecules within the eNOS/NO/PKG pathway were measured to investigate whether the transfection could imitate the attenuated process of erectile function in the aged. As a result, miR-200a was upregulated while the SIRT1, the levels of eNOS and cGMP were all downregulated in the CCs from AE group. After transfection in vitro, the miR-200a was upregulated while the SIRT1 and levels of eNOS and cGMP were obviously downregulated. Finally, based on the results of our previous study, we further verify that up-regulation of miR-200a could participate in the mechanisms of A-ED via SIRT1 inhibition, and mainly attenuate endothelial function via influencing the eNOS/NO/PKGpathway.	Age Factors;Animals;Endothelium/ physiopathology;Erectile Dysfunction/ genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Sirtuin 1/ antagonists & inhibitors;Up-Regulation
Identification and characterization of the MicroRNA profile in aging rats with erectile dysfunction	F. Pan, et al.	2014	24628851	INTRODUCTION: Aging-related erectile dysfunction (A-ED) is a neurovascular and refractory disorder with complicated pathophysiological mechanisms and a high prevalence. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), which modulate a variety of cell functions, may be involved in the pathophysiological processes of this disorder. AIM: To investigate the miRNA profile in the corpus cavernosum (CC) of aging rats with ED, and to analyze the target genes and signaling pathways regulated by the dysregulated miRNAs. METHODS: According to the apomorphine test, the experimental animals were divided into three groups: aging rats with ED (group AE), aging rats with normal erectile function (group AN), and young rats as normal controls (group YN). After the erectile functional test, CCs from each group were then collected for histological and molecular measurements. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Intracavernous pressure response to electric stimulation of the cavernous nerve was used to evaluate erectile function. Histological changes within CC were evaluated using immunofluorescent staining. GeneChip array was used to analyze the miRNA expression profiling. The miRNA profilings were further validated by real-time polymerase chain reaction. The TargetScan or DAIAN web platform and DAVID were used for bioinformatic analysis. RESULTS: Accompanied with significantly decreased erectile function, the content of smooth muscle and endothelium within the CC of rats with A-ED was significantly decreased compared with both AN group and YN group. miR-1, miR-200a, miR-203, and miR-206 were found and validated up-regulating with above twofold change in AE group. According to the bioinformatics analysis, the four up-expressing miRNAs could regulate eNOS/NO/PKG and PGE1/PKA pathways through regulating 13 target genes. CONCLUSIONS: Four miRNAs were found up-regulated significantly in the CC of rats with A-ED. The four miRNAs might play important roles in the development of A-ED by regulating the eNOS/NO/PKG and PGE1/PKA pathways despite lots of experiments still need to be validated.	Aging/physiology;Animals;Cyclic AMP-Dependent Protein Kinases/metabolism;Erectile Dysfunction/ etiology/physiopathology;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Nitric Oxide Synthase Type III/metabolism;Penile Erection/physiology;Penis/metabolism;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction/physiology;Up-Regulation;Array Analysis;Endothelial Nitric Oxide Synthase;Erectile Dysfunction;Pka;Pkg;microRNA
MicroRNA-125a-5p alleviates the deleterious effects of ox-LDL on multiple functions of human brain microvessel endothelial cells	Q. Pan, et al.	2017	27903586	MicroRNA-125a-5p (miR-125a-5p) could participate in the pathogenesis of vascular diseases. In this study, we investigated the role of miR-125a-5p in oxidized low-density lipoprotein (ox-LDL)-induced functional changes in human brain microvessel endothelial cells (HBMEC). The reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, nitric oxide (NO) generation, senescence, apoptosis, and functions of HBMEC were analyzed. For mechanism study, the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)/extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK)/p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK) pathway and phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase (PI3K)/serine/threonine kinase (Akt)/endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) pathway were analyzed. Results showed the following: 1) Expression of miR-125a-5p was reduced in ox-LDL-treated HBMEC. 2) Overexpression of miR-125a-5p protected HBMEC from ox-LDL-induced apoptosis, senescence, ROS production, and NO reduction. 3) Overexpression of miR-125a-5p increased HBMEC proliferation, migration, and tube formation, while decreasing HBMEC adhesion to leukocytes, as well as counteracting the effects of ox-LDL on those functions. 4) The levels of EGFR/ERK/p38 MAPK pathway, PI3K/Akt/eNOS pathway, cleaved caspase-3, and adherent molecular ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 were associated with the effects of ox-LDL on these HBMEC functions. In conclusion, miR-125a-5p could counteract the effects of ox-LDL on various HBMEC functions via regulating the EGFR/ERK/p38 MAPK and PI3K/Akt/eNOS pathways and cleaved caspase-3, ICAM-1, and VCAM-1 expression.	Apoptosis/physiology;Cells, Cultured;Cerebral Arteries/cytology/ physiology;Endothelial Cells/ physiology;Humans;Lipoproteins, LDL/ metabolism;MAP Kinase Signaling System/physiology;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Microvessels/cytology/ physiology;Neovascularization, Physiologic/physiology;Nitric Oxide/metabolism;Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases/metabolism;Reactive Oxygen Species/ metabolism;cell function;human brain microvessel endothelial cells;miR-125a-5p;oxidized low-density lipoprotein;signal pathway
Magnetofection Based on Superparamagnetic Iron Oxide Nanoparticles Weakens Glioma Stem Cell Proliferation and Invasion by Mediating High Expression of MicroRNA-374a	Z. Pan, et al.	2016	27471565	Glioma stem cells belong to a special subpopulation of glioma cells that are characterized by strong proliferation, invasion and drug resistance capabilities. Magnetic nanoparticles are nanoscale biological materials with magnetic properties. In this study, CD133(+) primary glioma stem cells were isolated from patients and cultured. Then, magnetic nanoparticles were used to mediate the transfection and expression of a microRNA-374a overexpression plasmid in the glioma stem cells. Transmission electron microscopy detected the presence of significant magnetic nanoparticle substances within the CD133(+) glioma stem cells after transfection. The qRT-PCR and Northern blot results showed that the magnetic nanoparticles could be used to achieve the transfection of the microRNA-374a overexpression plasmid into glioma stem cells and the efficient expression of mature microRNA-374a. The MTT and flow cytometry results showed that the proliferation inhibition rate was significantly higher in cells from the microRNA-374a transfection group than in cells from the microRNA-mut transfection group; additionally, the former cells presented significant cell cycle arrest. The Transwell experiments confirmed that the overexpression of microRNA-374a could significantly reduce the invasiveness of CD133(+) glioma stem cells. Moreover, the high expression of microRNA-374a mediated by the magnetic nanoparticles effectively reduced the tumourigenicity of CD133(+) glioma stem cells in nude mice. The luciferase assays revealed that mature microRNA-374a fragments could bind to the 3'UTR of Neuritin (NRN1), thereby interfering with Neuritin mRNA expression. The qRT-PCR and Western blotting results showed that the overexpression of microRNA-374a significantly reduced the expression of genes such as NRN1, CCND1, CDK4 and Ki67 in glioma stem cells. Thus, magnetic nanoparticles can efficiently mediate the transfection and expression of microRNA expression plasmids in mammalian cells. The overexpression of microRNA-374a can effectively silence NRN1 expression, thereby inhibiting the proliferation, invasion and in vivo tumourigenicity of human glioma stem cells.	Glioma stem cells (GSCs);Magnetofection based on superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles (SPIONs);Neuritin (NRN1);Proliferation and invasion.;microRNA-374a (miR-374a)
RT-qPCR Detection of Senescence-Associated Circular RNAs	A. C. Panda, et al.	2017	27812869	Primary cells that reach the end of their replicative potential, encounter sublethal stress, or experience the activation of certain oncogenes cease proliferation and enter a state of long-term growth arrest named senescence. The senescent process has been implicated in a variety of age-related diseases and also in the pathogenesis of cancer. Senescence is characterized by distinct changes in the types and levels of coding RNAs (mRNAs) as well as in the vast collective of regulatory noncoding (nc)RNAs, which includes microRNAs, long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs), and circular (circRNAs). Numerous technologies permit the detection of senescence-associated linear transcripts (mRNAs, lncRNAs, microRNAs), but the identification and quantification of circRNAs in senescence require distinct molecular approaches. In this chapter, we describe a method for the detection and measurement of circRNAs in senescent cells using specialized reverse transcription (RT) followed by real-time quantitative (q)PCR analysis.	Divergent primer design;RNA-binding proteins;Sponge circRNAs;Transcriptome
High-purity circular RNA isolation method (RPAD) reveals vast collection of intronic circRNAs	A. C. Panda, et al.	2017	28444238	High-throughput RNA sequencing methods coupled with specialized bioinformatic analyses have recently uncovered tens of thousands of unique circular (circ)RNAs, but their complete sequences, genes of origin and functions are largely unknown. Given that circRNAs lack free ends and are thus relatively stable, their association with microRNAs (miRNAs) and RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) can influence gene expression programs. While exoribonuclease treatment is widely used to degrade linear RNAs and enrich circRNAs in RNA samples, it does not efficiently eliminate all linear RNAs. Here, we describe a novel method for the isolation of highly pure circRNA populations involving RNase R treatment followed by Polyadenylation and poly(A)+ RNA Depletion (RPAD), which removes linear RNA to near completion. High-throughput sequencing of RNA prepared using RPAD from human cervical carcinoma HeLa cells and mouse C2C12 myoblasts led to two surprising discoveries: (i) many exonic circRNA (EcircRNA) isoforms share an identical backsplice sequence but have different body sizes and sequences, and (ii) thousands of novel intronic circular RNAs (IcircRNAs) are expressed in cells. In sum, isolating high-purity circRNAs using the RPAD method can enable quantitative and qualitative analyses of circRNA types and sequence composition, paving the way for the elucidation of circRNA functions.	
Identification of senescence-associated circular RNAs (SAC-RNAs) reveals senescence suppressor CircPVT1	A. C. Panda, et al.	2017	27928058	Using RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq), we compared the expression patterns of circular RNAs in proliferating (early-passage) and senescent (late-passage) human diploid WI-38 fibroblasts. Among the differentially expressed senescence-associated circRNAs (which we termed 'SAC-RNAs'), we identified CircPVT1, generated by circularization of an exon of the PVT1 gene, as a circular RNA showing markedly reduced levels in senescent fibroblasts. Reducing CircPVT1 levels in proliferating fibroblasts triggered senescence, as determined by a rise in senescence-associated beta-galactosidase activity, higher abundance of CDKN1A/P21 and TP53, and reduced cell proliferation. Although several microRNAs were predicted to bind CircPVT1, only let-7 was found enriched after pulldown of endogenous CircPVT1, suggesting that CircPVT1 might selectively modulate let-7 activity and hence expression of let-7-regulated mRNAs. Reporter analysis revealed that CircPVT1 decreased the cellular pool of available let-7, and antagonizing endogenous let-7 triggered cell proliferation. Importantly, silencing CircPVT1 promoted cell senescence and reversed the proliferative phenotype observed after let-7 function was impaired. Consequently, the levels of several proliferative proteins that prevent senescence, such as IGF2BP1, KRAS and HMGA2, encoded by let-7 target mRNAs, were reduced by silencing CircPVT1. Our findings indicate that the SAC-RNA CircPVT1, elevated in dividing cells and reduced in senescent cells, sequesters let-7 to enable a proliferative phenotype.	
Polysome Fractionation to Analyze mRNA Distribution Profiles	A. C. Panda, et al.	2017	28516123	Eukaryotic cells adapt to changes in external or internal signals by precisely modulating the expression of specific gene products. The expression of protein-coding genes is controlled at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. Among the latter steps, the regulation of translation is particularly important in cellular processes that require rapid changes in protein expression patterns. The translational efficiency of mRNAs is altered by RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) and noncoding (nc)RNAs such as microRNAs (Panda et al., 2014a and 2014b; Abdelmohsen et al., 2014). The impact of factors that regulate selective mRNA translation is a critical question in RNA biology. Polyribosome (polysome) fractionation analysis is a powerful method to assess the association of ribosomes with a given mRNA. It provides valuable information about the translational status of that mRNA, depending on the number of ribosomes with which they are associated, and identifies mRNAs that are not translated (Panda et al., 2016). mRNAs associated with many ribosomes form large polysomes that are predicted to be actively translated, while mRNAs associated with few or no ribosomes are expected to be translated poorly if at all. In sum, polysome fractionation analysis allows the direct determination of translation efficiencies at the level of the whole transcriptome as well as individual mRNAs.	Fractionation;Polysomes;Protein synthesis;RT-qPCR;Ribosome;Sucrose gradient;mRNA translation
miR-196b-mediated translation regulation of mouse insulin2 via the 5'UTR	A. C. Panda, et al.	2014	25003985	The 5' and the 3' untranslated regions (UTR) of the insulin genes are very well conserved across species. Although microRNAs (miRNAs) are known to regulate insulin secretion process, direct regulation of insulin biosynthesis by miRNA has not been reported. Here, we show that mouse microRNA miR-196b can specifically target the 5'UTR of the long insulin2 splice isoform. Using reporter assays we show that miR-196b specifically increases the translation of the reporter protein luciferase. We further show that this translation activation is abolished when Argonaute 2 levels are knocked down after transfection with an Argonaute 2-directed siRNA. Binding of miR-196b to the target sequence in insulin 5'UTR causes the removal of HuD (a 5'UTR-associated translation inhibitor), suggesting that both miR-196b and HuD bind to the same RNA element. We present data suggesting that the RNA-binding protein HuD, which represses insulin translation, is displaced by miR-196b. Together, our findings identify a mechanism of post-transcriptional regulation of insulin biosynthesis.	5' Untranslated Regions/ genetics;Animals;Argonaute Proteins/metabolism;Base Sequence;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/drug effects;Genes, Reporter/genetics;Glucose/pharmacology;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Insulin/ biosynthesis/ genetics/metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Pancreas/embryology;Protein Isoforms/biosynthesis/genetics/metabolism;Up-Regulation/drug effects
Critical role of the miR-200 family in regulating differentiation and proliferation of neurons	A. Pandey, et al.	2015	25753155	The generation of differentiated and functional neurons is a complex process, which requires coordinated expression of several proteins and microRNAs (miRNAs). The present study using nerve growth factor (NGF)-differentiated PC12 cells led to the identification of miR-200, miR-221/222 and miR-34 families as major up-regulated miRNAs in fully differentiated neurons. Similar to PC12 cells, induction of miR-200 family was observed in differentiating neural stem cells, demonstrating a direct role of miR-200 family in neuronal differentiation. Over-expression of miR-200 induced neurite formation in PC12 cells and regulated neuronal markers in favour of differentiation. However, inhibition of miR-200 induced proliferation of PC12 cells. In differentiating PC12 cells and neural stem cells, an inverse relationship was observed between expression of reprogramming transcription factors (SOX2, KLF4, NANOG, OCT4 and PAX6) and miR-200. Over-expression of miR-200 in PC12 cells significantly down-regulated mRNA and protein levels of SOX2 and KLF4. Moreover, we observed two phases of dramatic down-regulation of miR-200 expression in developing rat brains correlating with periods of neuronal proliferation. In conclusion, our results indicate that increased expression of the miR-200 family promotes neuronal differentiation, while decreased expression of the miR-200 family promotes neuronal proliferation by targeting SOX2 and KLF4.	Animals;Brain/growth & development;Cell Count;Cell Differentiation/ physiology;Cell Proliferation;Cell Survival;Kruppel-Like Transcription Factors/metabolism;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/genetics/ physiology;Nerve Growth Factor/pharmacology;Neurons/ physiology;PC12 Cells;Rats;SOXB1 Transcription Factors/metabolism;Transfection;Up-Regulation;Pc12;miR-200;microRNA;neural stem cells;neurogenesis;senescence
MicroRNA profiling reveals age-dependent differential expression of nuclear factor kappaB and mitogen-activated protein kinase in adipose and bone marrow-derived human mesenchymal stem cells	A. C. Pandey, et al.	2011	22169120	INTRODUCTION: Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) play a central role in mediating endogenous repair of cell and tissue damage. Biologic aging is a universal process that results in changes at the cellular and molecular levels. In the present study, the role of microRNA (miRNA) in age-induced molecular changes in MSCs derived from adipose tissue (ASCs) and bone marrow (BMSCs) from young and old human donors were investigated by using an unbiased genome-wide approach. METHODS: Human ASCs and BMSCs from young and old donors were cultured, and total RNA was isolated. The miRNA fraction was enriched and used to determine the expression profile of miRNA in young and old donor MSCs. Based on miRNA expression, differences in donor MSCs were further investigated by using differentiation assays, Western blot, immunocytochemistry, and bioinformatics. RESULTS: Biologic aging demonstrated reduced osteogenic and adipogenic potential in ASCs isolated from older donors, whereas cell size, complexity, and cell-surface markers remained intact with aging. Analysis of miRNA profiles revealed that small subsets of active miRNAs changed secondary to aging. Evaluation of miRNA showed significantly decreased levels of gene expression of inhibitory kappa B kinase (IkappaB), interleukin-1alpha, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), mitogen-activated protein kinase/p38, ERK1/2, c-fos, and c-jun in MSCs from older donors by both bioinformatics and Western blot analysis. Nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB), myc, and interleukin-4 receptor mRNA levels were significantly elevated in aged cells from both the adipose and bone marrow depots. Immunocytochemistry showed nuclear localization in young donors, but a cytosolic predominance of phosphorylated NF-kappaB in ASCs from older donors. Western blot demonstrated significantly elevated levels of NF-kappaB subunits, p65 and p50, and AKT. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that differential expression of miRNA is an integral component of biologic aging in MSCs.	Adipose Tissue/cytology;Aging;Bone Marrow Cells/cytology;Computational Biology;Cytokines/genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Immunohistochemistry;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/cytology/enzymology/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases/genetics/ metabolism;NF-kappa B/genetics/ metabolism;Nitric Oxide Synthase Type II/metabolism;Tissue Donors
PHA-4/FOXA-regulated microRNA feed forward loops during Caenorhabditis elegans dietary restriction	A. Pandit, et al.	2014	25504288	Dietary restriction (DR) increases life span and delays the onset of age-related diseases across species. However, the molecular mechanisms have remained relatively unexplored in terms of gene regulation. InC. elegans, a popular model for aging studies, the FOXA transcription factor PHA-4 is a robust genetic regulator of DR, although little is known about how it regulates gene expression. We profiled the transcriptome and miRNAome of an eat-2 mutant, a genetic surrogate of DR, by Next Generation sequencing and find that most of the miRNAs are upregulated in the young-adult worms, none significantly downregulated. Interestingly, PHA-4 can potentially regulate the expression of most of these miRNA genes. Remarkably, many of the PHA-4-regulated genes that are induced during DR are also targets of the PHA-4-upregulated miRNAs, forming a large feed-forward gene regulatory network. The genes targeted by the feed-forward loops (FFLs) are enriched for functions related to ubiquitin-mediated decay, lysosomal autophagy, cellular signalling, protein folding etc., processes that play critical roles in DR and longevity. Together our data provides a framework for understanding the complex and unique regulatory network employed during DR, suggesting that PHA-4 employs such FFLs to fine-tune gene expression and instil robustness in the system during energy crisis.	Aging/genetics;Animals;Caenorhabditis elegans/ physiology;Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins/ genetics;Caloric Restriction;Gene Expression Regulation/ genetics;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Longevity/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Trans-Activators/ genetics;Transcriptome
Circulating miR-34a levels correlate with age-related hearing loss in mice and humans	J. Pang, et al.	2016	26802970	Age-related hearing loss (AHL) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that is largely silent in its initial stages. There is no sensitive blood biomarker for diagnosis or early detection of AHL. MicroRNAs (miRNAs or miRs) are abundant and highly stable in blood, and have been recently described as powerful circulating biomarkers in a wide range of diseases. In the present study, we identified concordant increases in miR-34a levels in the cochlea, auditory cortex, and plasma of C57BL/6 mice during aging. These increases were accompanied by elevated hearing thresholds and greater loss of hair cells. Levels of miR-34a targets, silent information regulator 1 (SIRT1), B-cell lymphoma-2 (Bcl-2), and E2F transcription factor 3 (E2F3), in the cochlea, auditory cortex, and plasma decreased with aging inversely to miR-34a. Moreover, plasma miR-34a levels were significantly higher in patients with AHL compared with controls who had normal hearing and had a receiver-operating characteristic curve that distinguished AHL patients from controls. However, SIRT1, Bcl-2, and E2F3 showed no correlation with AHL in humans. In summary, circulating miR-34a level may potentially serve as a useful biomarker for early detection of AHL.	Acoustic Stimulation;Adult;Age Factors;Animals;Area Under Curve;Audiometry, Pure-Tone;Auditory Cortex/metabolism/physiopathology;Auditory Threshold;Case-Control Studies;Cochlea/metabolism/physiopathology;Disease Models, Animal;Evoked Potentials, Auditory, Brain Stem;Female;Genetic Markers;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Hair Cells, Auditory/metabolism;Hearing/ genetics;Humans;Male;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ blood;Middle Aged;Phenotype;Predictive Value of Tests;Presbycusis/blood/ genetics/physiopathology;ROC Curve;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Up-Regulation;Biomarker;MicroRNA;Plasma;Presbycusis
Longevity and the long arm of epigenetics: acquired parental marks influence lifespan across several generations	S. Pang and S. P. Curran	2012	22674543	A recent study reported that longevity in Caenorhabditits elegans can be inherited over several generations. This is probably achieved through the following epigenetic mechanism: inherited demethylated histones at some central loci, such as miRNA, transcription factors or signaling regulators affect the expression of certain genes leading to the longevity phenotype.	Aging;Animals;DNA Methylation;Epigenesis, Genetic;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Genetic Loci;Genome, Human;Genotype;Histones/metabolism;Humans;Inheritance Patterns;Longevity;Phenotype;Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism
Dicer expression is essential for adult midbrain dopaminergic neuron maintenance and survival	X. Pang, et al.	2014	24184162	The type III RNAse, Dicer, is responsible for the processing of microRNA (miRNA) precursors into functional miRNA molecules, non-coding RNAs that bind to and target messenger RNAs for repression. Dicer expression is essential for mouse midbrain development and dopaminergic (DAergic) neuron maintenance and survival during the early post-natal period. However, the role of Dicer in adult mouse DAergic neuron maintenance and survival is unknown. To bridge this gap in knowledge, we selectively knocked-down Dicer expression in individual DAergic midbrain areas, including the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) via viral-mediated expression of Cre in adult floxed Dicer knock-in mice (Dicer(flox/flox)). Bilateral Dicer loss in the VTA resulted in progressive hyperactivity that was significantly reduced by the dopamine agonist, amphetamine. In contrast, decreased Dicer expression in the SNpc did not affect locomotor activity but did induce motor-learning impairment on an accelerating rotarod. Knock-down of Dicer in both midbrain regions of adult Dicer(flox/flox) mice resulted in preferential, progressive loss of DAergic neurons likely explaining motor behavior phenotypes. In addition, knock-down of Dicer in midbrain areas triggered neuronal death via apoptosis. Together, these data indicate that Dicer expression and, as a consequence, miRNA function, are essential for DAergic neuronal maintenance and survival in adult midbrain DAergic neuron brain areas.	Amphetamine/pharmacology;Animals;Apoptosis;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/genetics/ metabolism;Dopamine Agonists/pharmacology;Dopaminergic Neurons/drug effects/ metabolism/physiology;Learning;Locomotion;Mesencephalon/cytology/growth & development/ metabolism/physiology;Mice;Organ Specificity;Phenotype;Ribonuclease III/genetics/ metabolism;Dicer;Dopamine;MicroRNA;Midbrain;Neurodegeneration
Computational studies on Alzheimer's disease associated pathways and regulatory patterns using microarray gene expression and network data: revealed association with aging and other diseases	P. P. Panigrahi and T. R. Singh	2013	23811083	Alzheimer's disease (AD), which is one of the most common age-associated neurodegenerative disorders, affects millions of people worldwide. Due to its polygenic nature, AD is believed to be caused not by defects in single genes, but by variations in a large number of genes and their complex interactions, which ultimately contribute to the broad spectrum of disease phenotypes. Extraction of insights and knowledge from microarray and network data will lead to a better understanding of complex diseases. The present study aimed to identify genes with differential topology and their further association with other biological processes that regulate causative factors for AD, ageing (AG) and other diseases. Our analysis revealed a common sharing of important biological processes and putative candidate genes among AD and AG. Some significant novel genes and other variants for various biological processes have been reported as being associated with AD, AG, and other diseases, and these could be implicated in biochemical events leading to AD from AG through pathways, interactions, and associations. Novel information for network motifs such as BiFan, MIM (multiple input module), and SIM (single input module) and their close variants has also been discovered and this implicit information will help to improve research into AD and AG. Ten major classes for TFs (transcription factors) have been identified in our data, where hundreds of TFBS patterns are being found associated with AD, and other disease. Structural and physico-chemical properties analysis for these TFBS classes revealed association of biological processes involved with other severe human disease. Nucleosomes and linkers positional information could provide insights into key cellular processes. Unique miRNA (micro RNA) targets were identified as another regulatory process for AD. The association of novel genes and variants of existing genes have also been explored for their interaction and association with other diseases that are either directly or indirectly implicated through AG and AD.	Aging/genetics;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics;CA1 Region, Hippocampal/metabolism;Cluster Analysis;Computational Biology/ methods;Gene Ontology;Gene Regulatory Networks;Humans;Models, Genetic;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Transcriptome;Enrichment analysis;Mirna;Network motifs;Nucleosomes;Tfbs
The NRF2-related interactome and regulome contain multifunctional proteins and fine-tuned autoregulatory loops	D. Papp, et al.	2012	22641035	NRF2 is a well-known, master transcription factor (TF) of oxidative and xenobiotic stress responses. Recent studies uncovered an even wider regulatory role of NRF2 influencing carcinogenesis, inflammation and neurodegeneration. Prompted by these advances here we present a systems-level resource for NRF2 interactome and regulome that includes 289 protein-protein, 7469 TF-DNA and 85 miRNA interactions. As systems-level examples of NRF2-related signaling we identified regulatory loops of NRF2 interacting proteins (e.g., JNK1 and CBP) and a fine-tuned regulatory system, where 35 TFs regulated by NRF2 influence 63 miRNAs that down-regulate NRF2. The presented network and the uncovered regulatory loops may facilitate the development of efficient, NRF2-based therapeutic agents.	Binding Sites;Gene Regulatory Networks;Homeostasis;MicroRNAs/metabolism;NF-E2-Related Factor 2/ genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism
MicroRNA-434-3p regulates age-related apoptosis through eIF5A1 in the skeletal muscle	P. S. Pardo, et al.	2017	28331100	Increased activation of catabolic pathways, including apoptosis causes sarcopenia. However, the precise molecular mechanism that initiates apoptosis during aging is not well understood. Here, we report that aging alters miRNA expression profile in mouse skeletal muscle as evidenced by miRNA microarray and real-time PCR. We identified miR-434-3p as a highly downregulated miRNA in the skeletal muscle of aging mice. Myocytes transfected with miR-434-3p mimic prevents apoptosis induced by various apoptotic stimuli, and co-transfection of miR-434-3p antagomir abolishes the inhibitory role of miR-434-3p. We found that miR-434-3p inhibits apoptosis by targeting the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A1 (eIF5A1). Overexpression of miR-434-3p in myocytes reduces the loss of mitochondrial transmembrane potential, and activation of caspases-3, -8 and -9 by suppressing eIF5A1 in response to various apoptotic stimuli whereas inhibition of miR-434-3p reversed this scenario. Skeletal muscles from aging mice exhibit low levels of miR-434-3p and high levels of eIF5A1, suggesting a possible role for miR-434-3p in the initiation of apoptosis in aging muscle. Overall, our data identified for the first time that miR-434-3p is an anti-apoptotic miRNA that may be therapeutically useful for treating muscle atrophy in various pathophysiological conditions, including sarcopenia.	aging;mitochondria;sarcopenia;skeletal muscle
Physical exercise and epigenetic modulation: elucidating intricate mechanisms	H. Pareja-Galeano, et al.	2014	24399634	Physical exercise induces several metabolic adaptations to meet increased energy requirements. Promoter DNA methylation, histone post-translational modifications, or microRNA expression are involved in the gene expression changes implicated in metabolic adaptation after exercise. Epigenetic modifications and many epigenetic enzymes are potentially dependent on changes in the levels of metabolites, such as oxygen, tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediates, 2-oxoglutarate, 2-hydroxyglutarate, and beta-hydroxybutyrate, and are therefore susceptible to the changes induced by exercise in a tissue-dependent manner. Most of these changes are regulated by important epigenetic modifiers that control DNA methylation (DNA methyl transferases, and ten-eleven-translocation proteins) and post-translational modifications in histone tails controlled by histone acetyltransferases, histone deacetylases, and histone demethylases (jumonji C proteins, lysine-specific histone demethylase, etc.), among others. Developments in mass spectrometry approaches and the comprehension of the interconnections between epigenetics and metabolism further increase our understanding of underlying epigenetic mechanisms, not only of exercise, but also of disease and aging. In this article, we describe several of these substrates and signaling molecules regulated by exercise that affect some of the most important epigenetic mechanisms, which, in turn, control the gene expression involved in metabolism.	Adaptation, Physiological/genetics;DNA Methylation;Energy Metabolism/ genetics;Epigenesis, Genetic;Exercise/ physiology;Histones/metabolism;Humans;Mass Spectrometry;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Protein Processing, Post-Translational
Dysregulated microRNAs in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis microglia modulate genes linked to neuroinflammation	C. Parisi, et al.	2013	24336079	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate gene expression at post-transcriptional level and are key modulators of immune system, whose dysfunction contributes to the progression of neuroinflammatory diseaseas such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), the most widespread motor neuron disorder. ALS is a non-cell-autonomous disease targeting motor neurons and neighboring glia, with microgliosis directly contributing to neurodegeneration. As limited information exists on miRNAs dysregulations in ALS, we examined this topic in primary microglia from superoxide dismutase 1-G93A mouse model. We compared miRNAs transcriptional profiling of non-transgenic and ALS microglia in resting conditions and after inflammatory activation by P2X7 receptor agonist. We identified upregulation of selected immune-enriched miRNAs, recognizing miR-22, miR-155, miR-125b and miR-146b among the most highly modulated. We proved that miR-365 and miR-125b interfere, respectively, with the interleukin-6 and STAT3 pathway determining increased tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) transcription. As TNFalpha directly upregulated miR-125b, and inhibitors of miR-365/miR-125b reduced TNFalpha transcription, we recognized the induction of miR-365 and miR-125b as a vicious gateway culminating in abnormal TNFalpha release. These results strengthen the impact of miRNAs in modulating inflammatory genes linked to ALS and identify specific miRNAs as pathogenetic mechanisms in the disease.	Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/ genetics;Animals;Cells, Cultured;Interleukin-6/genetics;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Microglia/drug effects/ metabolism;Purinergic P2X Receptor Agonists/pharmacology;Superoxide Dismutase/genetics;Superoxide Dismutase-1;Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha/genetics
MicroRNA-125b regulates microglia activation and motor neuron death in ALS	C. Parisi, et al.	2016	26794445	Understanding the means by which microglia self-regulate the neuroinflammatory response helps modulating their reaction during neurodegeneration. In amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), classical NF-kappaB pathway is related to persistent microglia activation and motor neuron injury; however, mechanisms of negative control of NF-kappaB activity remain unexplored. One of the major players in the termination of classical NF-kappaB pathway is the ubiquitin-editing enzyme A20, which has recognized anti-inflammatory functions. Lately, microRNAs are emerging as potent fine-tuners of neuroinflammation and reported to be regulated in ALS, for instance, by purinergic P2X7 receptor activation. In this work, we uncover an interplay between miR-125b and A20 protein in the modulation of classical NF-kappaB signaling in microglia. In particular, we establish the existence of a pathological circuit in which termination of A20 function by miR-125b strengthens and prolongs the noxious P2X7 receptor-dependent activation of NF-kappaB in microglia, with deleterious consequences on motor neurons. We prove that, by restoring A20 levels, miR-125b inhibition then sustains motor neuron survival. These results introduce miR-125b as a key mediator of microglia dynamics in ALS.	Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/genetics/metabolism/ pathology;Animals;Cell Death;Cysteine Endopeptidases/genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Intracellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Lipopolysaccharides/pharmacology;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Microglia/immunology/ metabolism;Motor Neurons/physiology;Mutation, Missense;Primary Cell Culture;RNA Interference;Superoxide Dismutase/ genetics;Superoxide Dismutase-1;Transcription Factor RelA/genetics/metabolism;Tumor Necrosis Factor alpha-Induced Protein 3
miR-34a inhibits differentiation of human adipose tissue-derived stem cells by regulating cell cycle and senescence induction	H. Park, et al.	2015	26677981	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are critical in the maintenance, differentiation, and lineage commitment of stem cells. Stem cells have the unique property to differentiate into tissue-specific cell types (lineage commitment) during cell division (self-renewal). In this study, we investigated whether miR-34a, a cell cycle-regulating microRNA, could control the stem cell properties of adipose tissue-derived stem cells (ADSCs). First, we found that the expression level of miR-34a was increased as the cell passage number was increased. This finding, however, was inversely correlated with our finding that the overexpression of miR-34a induced the decrease of cell proliferation. In addition, miR-34a overexpression decreased the expression of various cell cycle regulators such as CDKs (-2, -4, -6) and cyclins (-E, -D), but not p21 and p53. The cell cycle analysis showed accumulation of dividing cells at S phase by miR-34a, which was reversible by co-treatment with anti-miR-34a. The potential of adipogenesis and osteogenesis of ADSCs was also decreased by miR-34a overexpression, which was recovered by co-treatment with anti-miR-34a. The surface expression of stem cell markers including CD44 was also down-regulated by miR-34a overexpression as similar to that elicited by cell cycle inhibitors. miR-34a also caused a significant decrease in mRNA expression of stem cell transcription factors as well as STAT-3 expression and phosphorylation. Cytokine profiling revealed that miR-34a significantly modulated IL-6 and -8 production, which was strongly related to cellular senescence. These data suggest the importance of miR-34a for the fate of ADSCs toward senescence rather than differentiation.	Adipogenesis/ genetics;Adipose Tissue/cytology;Antigens, CD44/metabolism;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Cycle/ genetics;Cell Cycle Proteins/metabolism;Cell Proliferation/genetics;Humans;Interleukin-6/metabolism;Interleukin-8/metabolism;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics;Oligoribonucleotides, Antisense/pharmacology;Osteogenesis/genetics;STAT3 Transcription Factor/ metabolism;Stem Cells/ cytology/physiology;Adipose-derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells;Cell Cycle;Senescence;miR-34a
Age-associated changes in microRNA expression in bone marrow derived dendritic cells	S. Park, et al.	2013	23252865	MiRNAs have shown to regulate aging process at the level of cellular senescence, tissue aging, and lifespan of whole organism. Given that many miRNAs also function as important regulators of hematopoietic system as well as aging process, it is highly likely that miRNAs would be involved in the changes of myeloid function and differentiation during aging. Therefore, here we examine differential expression of miRNAs in aged myeloid lineage cells and assess if altered miRNA expression pattern would reflect the change of miRNA targets and related function. We demonstrated that the expressions of myelogenic miRNAs such as miR-155, miR-223, miR-146a, miR-146b, miR-132, miR-142-5p, and miR-142-3p were increased in aged bone marrow derived dendritic cells (BMDC) under normal and activated conditions. We also observed that the expressions of IRAK1 and TRAF6, the targets of miR-146a, and DC-SIGN, a target of miR-155 were diminished while miR-146a and miR-155 were augmented during aging. In addition, we found that the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, which is mediated by the activation of NF-kB pathway via IRAK1 and TRAF6, was greatly reduced in aged BMDC. Taken together, our data reveal that age-associated changes occur in miRNA expression in BMDC, and this altered miRNA expression affects miRNA target expression and compromises BMDC function such as cytokine production during aging.	Aging/ genetics/ immunology;Animals;Cell Differentiation;Cytokines/immunology/metabolism;Dendritic Cells/cytology/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Myeloid Cells/cytology/ metabolism;NF-kappa B/genetics/metabolism
Preclinical Evaluation of miR-15/107 Family Members as Multifactorial Drug Targets for Alzheimer's Disease	S. Parsi, et al.	2015	26440600	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial, fatal neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the abnormal accumulation of Abeta and Tau deposits in the brain. There is no cure for AD, and failure at different clinical trials emphasizes the need for new treatments. In recent years, significant progress has been made toward the development of miRNA-based therapeutics for human disorders. This study was designed to evaluate the efficiency and potential safety of miRNA replacement therapy in AD, using miR-15/107 paralogues as candidate drug targets. We identified miR-16 as a potent inhibitor of amyloid precursor protein (APP) and BACE1 expression, Abeta peptide production, and Tau phosphorylation in cells. Brain delivery of miR-16 mimics in mice resulted in a reduction of AD-related genes APP, BACE1, and Tau in a region-dependent manner. We further identified Nicastrin, a gamma-secretase component involved in Abeta generation, as a target of miR-16. Proteomics analysis identified a number of additional putative miR-16 targets in vivo, including alpha-Synuclein and Transferrin receptor 1. Top-ranking biological networks associated with miR-16 delivery included AD and oxidative stress. Collectively, our data suggest that miR-16 is a good candidate for future drug development by targeting simultaneously endogenous regulators of AD biomarkers (i.e., Abeta and Tau), inflammation, and oxidative stress.	
Recurrent miscarriage and micro-RNA among north Indian women	F. Parveen and S. Agrawal	2015	24700052	Micro-RNAs (miRNAs) regulate diverse cellular processes such as cell differentiation, proliferation and apoptosis. Mutation in miRNAs results in various pathological conditions such as inflammation, viral infections, neurodegeneration, autoimmunity, and so on. We have evaluated the association of miR-146aC > G (rs2910164), miR-149T > C (rs2292832), miR-196a2T > C (rs11614913), and miR-499A > G (rs3746444) among patients with recurrent miscarriage (RM) and controls from North India. All the 200 patients with RM reported to experience at least 3 unexplained miscarriages before 20th week of gestation. Three hundred fertile women with no history of RMs were taken as controls. Both patients and controls were genotyped by the polymerase chain reaction amplification followed by restriction fragment length polymorphism. Variant alleles and genotypes of miR-499 A > G (Single Nucleotide Polymorphism Database [dbSNP] ID rs3746444) were found to be significant risks associated with patients having RM (odds ratio [OR] = 1.98; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.40-2.81; P value = .0001) and controls (OR = 3.64; 95% CI = 1.33-9.94; P value = .0109). A significant susceptible effect was found at allelic level in miR-196aT > C (dbSNP ID rs11614913) and miR-499 A > G (dbSNP ID rs3746444).	Abortion, Habitual/diagnosis/epidemiology/ genetics;Case-Control Studies;Female;Gene Frequency;Genetic Association Studies;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Haplotypes;Heterozygote;Homozygote;Humans;India/epidemiology;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Odds Ratio;Phenotype;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Pregnancy;Risk Factors;micro-RNA;recurrent miscarriage;single-nucleotide polymorphism
miR-22 and miR-29a Are Members of the Androgen Receptor Cistrome Modulating LAMC1 and Mcl-1 in Prostate Cancer	L. Pasqualini, et al.	2015	26052614	The normal prostate as well as early stages and advanced prostate cancer (PCa) require a functional androgen receptor (AR) for growth and survival. The recent discovery of microRNAs (miRNAs) as novel effector molecules of AR disclosed the existence of an intricate network between AR, miRNAs and downstream target genes. In this study DUCaP cells, characterized by high content of wild-type AR and robust AR transcriptional activity, were chosen as the main experimental model. By integrative analysis of chromatin immunoprecipitation-sequencing (ChIP-seq) and microarray expression profiling data, miRNAs putatively bound and significantly regulated by AR were identified. A direct AR regulation of miR-22, miR-29a, and miR-17-92 cluster along with their host genes was confirmed. Interestingly, endogenous levels of miR-22 and miR-29a were found to be reduced in PCa cells expressing AR. In primary tumor samples, miR-22 and miR-29a were less abundant in the cancerous tissue compared with the benign counterpart. This specific expression pattern was associated with a differential DNA methylation of the genomic AR binding sites. The identification of laminin gamma 1 (LAMC1) and myeloid cell leukemia 1 (MCL1) as direct targets of miR-22 and miR-29a, respectively, suggested a tumor-suppressive role of these miRNAs. Indeed, transfection of miRNA mimics in PCa cells induced apoptosis and diminished cell migration and viability. Collectively, these data provide additional information regarding the complex regulatory machinery that guides miRNAs activity in PCa, highlighting an important contribution of miRNAs in the AR signaling.	Androgens/pharmacology;Apoptosis/drug effects/genetics;Binding Sites;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Movement/drug effects/genetics;Cell Survival/drug effects/genetics;DNA Methylation/drug effects/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/drug effects;Genome;Humans;Laminin/ genetics/metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Myeloid Cell Leukemia Sequence 1 Protein/ genetics/metabolism;Prostatic Neoplasms/genetics/pathology;Receptors, Androgen/ genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction/drug effects/genetics
MicroRNAs can regulate human APP levels	N. Patel, et al.	2008	18684319	A number of studies have shown that increased APP levels, resulting from either a genomic locus duplication or alteration in APP regulatory sequences, can lead to development of early-onset dementias, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, understanding how APP levels are regulated could provide valuable insight into the genetic basis of AD and illuminate novel therapeutic avenues for AD. Here we test the hypothesis that APP protein levels can be regulated by miRNAs, evolutionarily conserved small noncoding RNA molecules that play an important role in regulating gene expression. Utilizing human cell lines, we demonstrate that miRNAs hsa-mir-106a and hsa-mir-520c bind to their predicted target sequences in the APP 3'UTR and negatively regulate reporter gene expression. Over-expression of these miRNAs, but not control miRNAs, results in translational repression of APP mRNA and significantly reduces APP protein levels. These results are the first to demonstrate that levels of human APP can be regulated by miRNAs.	
Epigenetics in Parkinson's Disease	M. A. S. Pavlou and T. F. Outeiro	2017	28523556	Parkinson's disease (PD) is a highly complex neurodegenerative disorder with a multifactorial origin. Although several cellular mechanisms and genes have been implicated in the onset and progression of the disease, the precise molecular underpinnings of the disease remain unclear. In this context, epigenetic modulation of gene expression by environmental factors is emerging as an important mechanism in PD and in other neurodegenerative disorders. Thus, epigenetic mechanisms, such as DNA methylation, histone modifications and altered microRNA expression, have been under intense investigation due to their possible involvement in PD. Epigenetic modulation is responsible for inducing differential gene expression, a phenomenon which is essential throughout life in order to regulate multiple cellular responses such as development, cellular fate commitment and adaptation to the environment. Disturbances of a balanced gene expression can, therefore, have detrimental effects. Environmental factors can challenge the establishment and maintenance of epigenetic modifications and could thereby fill the gap in our further understanding of origin and/or progression of neurodegenerative diseases. In this chapter, we focus on the role of epigenetics in PD.	Alpha-synuclein;DNA methylation;Epigenetics;Histone modifications;Parkinson's disease;miRNA
Transcriptomic signatures in cartilage ageing	M. Peffers, et al.	2013	23971731	INTRODUCTION: Age is an important factor in the development of osteoarthritis. Microarray studies provide insight into cartilage aging but do not reveal the full transcriptomic phenotype of chondrocytes such as small noncoding RNAs, pseudogenes, and microRNAs. RNA-Seq is a powerful technique for the interrogation of large numbers of transcripts including nonprotein coding RNAs. The aim of the study was to characterise molecular mechanisms associated with age-related changes in gene signatures. METHODS: RNA for gene expression analysis using RNA-Seq and real-time PCR analysis was isolated from macroscopically normal cartilage of the metacarpophalangeal joints of eight horses; four young donors (4 years old) and four old donors (>15 years old). RNA sequence libraries were prepared following ribosomal RNA depletion and sequencing was undertaken using the Illumina HiSeq 2000 platform. Differentially expressed genes were defined using Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate correction with a generalised linear model likelihood ratio test (P < 0.05, expression ratios +/- 1.4 log(2) fold-change). Ingenuity pathway analysis enabled networks, functional analyses and canonical pathways from differentially expressed genes to be determined. RESULTS: In total, the expression of 396 transcribed elements including mRNAs, small noncoding RNAs, pseudogenes, and a single microRNA was significantly different in old compared with young cartilage (+/- 1.4 log2 fold-change, P < 0.05). Of these, 93 were at higher levels in the older cartilage and 303 were at lower levels in the older cartilage. There was an over-representation of genes with reduced expression relating to extracellular matrix, degradative proteases, matrix synthetic enzymes, cytokines and growth factors in cartilage derived from older donors compared with young donors. In addition, there was a reduction in Wnt signalling in ageing cartilage. CONCLUSION: There was an age-related dysregulation of matrix, anabolic and catabolic cartilage factors. This study has increased our knowledge of transcriptional networks in cartilage ageing by providing a global view of the transcriptome.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Cartilage/ pathology;Gene Expression Profiling/ methods;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing/methods;Horses;Osteoarthritis/genetics/pathology;Polymerase Chain Reaction;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Sequence Analysis, RNA/methods;Transcriptome
Age-related changes in mesenchymal stem cells identified using a multi-omics approach	M. J. Peffers, et al.	2016	26853623	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) are capable of multipotent differentiation into connective tissues and as such are an attractive source for autologous cell-based treatments for many clinical diseases and injuries. Ageing is associated with various altered cellular phenotypes coupled with a variety of transcriptional, epigenetic and translational changes. Furthermore, the regeneration potential of MSCs is reduced with increasing age and is correlated with changes in cellular functions. This study used a systems biology approach to investigate the transcriptomic (RNASeq), epigenetic (miRNASeq and DNA methylation) and protein alterations in ageing MSCs in order to understand the age-related functional and biological variations, which may affect their applications to regenerative medicine. We identified no change in expression of the cellular senescence markers. Alterations were evident at both the transcriptional and post-transcriptional level in a number of transcription factors. There was enrichment in genes involved in developmental disorders at mRNA and differential methylated loci (DML) level. Alterations in energy metabolism were apparent at the DML and protein level. The microRNA miR-199b-5p, whose expression was reduced in old MSCs, had predicted gene targets involved in energy metabolism and cell survival. Additionally, enrichment of DML and proteins in cell survival was evident. Enrichment in metabolic processes was revealed at the protein level and in genes identified as undergoing alternate splicing. Overall, an altered phenotype in MSC ageing at a number of levels implicated roles for inflamm-ageing and mitochondrial ageing. Identified changes represent novel insights into the ageing process, with implications for stem cell therapies in older patients.	Aging/ physiology;Alternative Splicing/genetics;Base Sequence;Bone Marrow Cells/cytology;Cell Aging/ physiology;Cell Differentiation;Cells, Cultured;DNA Methylation/genetics;Energy Metabolism/physiology;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ cytology;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/genetics;Mitochondria/physiology;Phenotype;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Systems Biology/methods;Transcription Factors/metabolism
Transcriptome analysis of ageing in uninjured human Achilles tendon	M. J. Peffers, et al.	2015	25888722	INTRODUCTION: The risk of tendon injury and disease increases significantly with increasing age. The aim of the study was to characterise transcriptional changes in human Achilles tendon during the ageing process in order to identify molecular signatures that might contribute to age-related degeneration. METHODS: RNA for gene expression analysis using RNA-Seq and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis was isolated from young and old macroscopically normal human Achilles tendon. RNA sequence libraries were prepared following ribosomal RNA depletion, and sequencing was undertaken by using the Illumina HiSeq 2000 platform. Expression levels among genes were compared by using fragments per kilobase of exon per million fragments mapped. Differentially expressed genes were defined by using Benjamini-Hochberg false discovery rate approach (P<0.05, expression ratios 1.4 log2 fold change). Alternative splicing of exon variants were also examined by using Cufflinks. The functional significance of genes that showed differential expression between young and old tendon was determined by using ingenuity pathway analysis. RESULTS: In total, the expression of 325 transcribed elements, including protein-coding transcripts and non-coding transcripts (small non-coding RNAs, pseudogenes, long non-coding RNAs and a single microRNA), was significantly different in old compared with young tendon (+/-1.4 log2 fold change, P<0.05). Of these, 191 were at higher levels in older tendon and 134 were at lower levels in older tendon. The top networks for genes differentially expressed with tendon age were from cellular function, cellular growth, and cellular cycling pathways. Notable differential transcriptome changes were also observed in alternative splicing patterns. Several of the top gene ontology terms identified in downregulated isoforms in old tendon related to collagen and post-translational modification of collagen. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates dynamic alterations in RNA with age at numerous genomic levels, indicating changes in the regulation of transcriptional networks. The results suggest that ageing is not primarily associated with loss of ability to synthesise matrix proteins and matrix-degrading enzymes. In addition, we have identified non-coding RNA genes and differentially expressed transcript isoforms of known matrix components with ageing which require further investigation.	Achilles Tendon/ metabolism;Aging/ genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;RNA/isolation & purification;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction
Extracellular vesicles as modulators of cell-to-cell communication in the healthy and diseased brain	D. M. Pegtel, et al.	2014	25135977	Homeostasis relies heavily on effective cell-to-cell communication. In the central nervous system (CNS), probably more so than in other organs, such communication is crucial to support and protect neurons especially during ageing, as well as to control inflammation, remove debris and infectious agents. Emerging evidence indicates that extracellular vesicles (EVs) including endosome-derived exosomes and fragments of the cellular plasma membrane play a key role in intercellular communication by transporting messenger RNA, microRNA (miRNA) and proteins. In neurodegenerative diseases, secreted vesicles not only remove misfolded proteins, but also transfer aggregated proteins and prions and are thus thought to perpetuate diseases by 'infecting' neighbouring cells with these pathogenic proteins. Conversely, in other CNS disorders signals from stressed cells may help control inflammation and inhibit degeneration. EVs may also reflect the status of the CNS and are present in the cerebrospinal fluid indicating that exosomes may act as biomarkers of disease. That extracellular RNA and in particular miRNA, can be transferred by EV also indicates that these vesicles could be used as carriers to specifically target the CNS to deliver immune modulatory drugs, neuroprotective agents and anti-cancer drugs. Here, we discuss the recent evidence indicating the potential role of exosomes in neurological disorders and how knowledge of their biology may enable a Trojan-horse approach to deliver drugs into the CNS and treat neurodegenerative and other disorders of the CNS.	Biological Transport/physiology;Brain/ physiology/physiopathology;Cell Communication/ physiology;Drug Delivery Systems/methods;Exosomes/ physiology;Humans;Models, Neurological;Nervous System Diseases/drug therapy/ physiopathology;drug delivery;exosomes;extracellular vesicles;neurodegeneration;therapy
MicroRNAs modulated by local mIGF-1 expression in mdx dystrophic mice	L. Pelosi, et al.	2015	25999854	Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a X-linked genetic disease in which the absence of dystrophin leads to progressive lethal skeletal muscle degeneration. It has been demonstrated that among genes which are important for proper muscle development and function, micro-RNAs (miRNAs) play a crucial role. Moreover, altered levels of miRNAs were found in several muscular disorders, including DMD. A specific group of miRNAs, whose expression depends on dystrophin levels and whose deregulation explains several DMD pathogenetic traits, has been identified. Here, we addressed whether the anabolic activity of mIGF-1 on dystrophic muscle is associated with modulation of microRNAs expression. We demonstrated that some microRNAs are strictly linked to the dystrophin expression and are not modulated by mIGF-1 expression. In contrast, local expression of mIGF-1 promotes the modulation of other microRNAs, such as miR-206 and miR-24, along with the modulation of muscle specific genes, which are associated with maturation of regenerating fibers and with the stabilization of the differentiated muscle phenotype. These data suggest that mIGF-1, modifying the expression of some of the active players of muscle homeostasis, is able, even in absence of dystrophin expression, to activate circuitries that confer robustness to dystrophic muscle.	mIGF-1;miRNAs;muscle homeostasis;muscular dystrophy;tissue niche
MicroRNAs and cataracts: correlation among let-7 expression, age and the severity of lens opacity	C. H. Peng, et al.	2012	22334139	BACKGROUND: Let-7 microRNA is an important regulator of cellular ageing and tissue senescence. The objective of this study is to evaluate the expression of let-7a/let-7b/let-7c microRNAs in human age-related cataracts. AIM: To evaluate the correlation among the severity of lens opacity, the level of let-7a/let-7b/let-7c microRNA expression and patient age in the context of age-related cataracts. METHODS: The authors evaluated the mRNA level of let-7a/let-7b/let-7c microRNA in lens epithelia obtained from 174 eyes with age-related cataracts. The authors also recorded the patient age and the severity of lens opacity as classified according to the modified version of the Lens Opacities Classification System version III. RESULTS: Let-7b microRNA expression was demonstrated to be positively associated with patient age (R=0.472; p<0.001). A positive correlation was also observed between higher N, C and P cataract scores and higher expression of let-7b microRNA in patients with age-related cataracts (p<0.001). However, no significant correlation was observed between the let-7a and let-7c microRNA expression levels and either the severity of lens opacity or the patient age. CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that microRNAs play a role in age-related cataracts. A local let-7b microRNA increase may represent a risk factor in the formation of age-related cataracts.	Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ physiology;Blotting, Western;Cataract/ genetics/physiopathology;Epithelial Cells/metabolism;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/ physiology;Humans;Lens, Crystalline/ metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Phacoemulsification;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Risk Factors
Purification of pre-miR-29 by arginine-affinity chromatography	P. Pereira, et al.	2014	24508674	Recently, differential expression of microRNAs, in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) suggests that they might have key regulatory roles in this neurodegenerative disease. Taking into account this fact, several studies demonstrated that the miR-29 is significantly decreased in AD patients, also displaying abnormally high levels of beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1. Thus, RNA biochemical or structural studies often require a RNA sample that is chemically pure and biologically active. The present work describes a new affinity chromatography method using an arginine support to specifically purify pre-miR-29 from other Rhodovulum sulfidophilum small RNA species. Nevertheless, in order to achieve higher efficiency and selectivity, it is essential to characterize the behavior of pre-miR-29 binding/elution. Thus, three different strategies based on increased sodium chloride (280-500mM), arginine (25mM) or decreased ammonium sulfate (2-0.1M) stepwise gradients are described to purify pre-miR-29. In this way, it was proved that well-defined binding/elution conditions are crucial to enhance the purification performance. As a matter of fact, by employing elution strategies using sodium chloride or arginine, an improvement in the final pre-miR-29 yields (96.5 and 56.7%, respectively) was obtained. Moreover, the quality control analysis revealed high integrity in pre-miR-29 preparations as well as high purity (90 and 98%, respectively), demonstrated by the scarce detection of proteins. This improved method takes advantage of its simplicity, significant cost reduction, due to the elimination of some complex operations, and speed for large-scale purification of pre-miRNAs suitable for biochemical and structural studies.	Arginine/ chemistry;Chromatography, Affinity/ methods;Electrophoresis, Polyacrylamide Gel;MicroRNAs/analysis/chemistry/genetics/ isolation & purification;Osmolar Concentration;Rhodovulum/chemistry/genetics;Temperature;Alzheimer's disease;Arginine-affinity chromatography;Multiple interactions;RNA purification;Rhodovulum sulfidophilum;pre-miR-29
Recombinant pre-miR-29b for Alzheimer s disease therapeutics	P. A. Pereira, et al.	2016	26818210	MicroRNAs are arising as the next generation of diagnostic and therapeutic tools for gene silencing. Studies demonstrated that the miR-29 expression is decreased in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients displaying high levels of human beta-secretase (hBACE1). Recent advances toward an effective therapy for AD intend to employ miR-29 to suppress hBACE1 expression and subsequent Amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide. However, delivery of mature miRNA has demonstrated modest efficacy in vitro; therefore, the preparation of highly pure and biologically active pre-miRNA arises as one of the most important challenges in the development of these therapeutic strategies. Recently, we described a new strategy based arginine-affinity chromatography to specifically purify the recombinant pre-miR-29b. Following this strategy, the purified pre-miR-29b was successfully encapsulated into polyplexes that were further delivered in cytoplasm. It was verified that Chitosan/pre-miR-29b and Polyethylenimine/pre-miR-29b systems efficiently delivered pre-miR-29b to N2a695 cells, thus reducing the hBACE1 protein expression (around 78% and 86%, respectively) and Abeta42 levels (approximately 44% and 47%, respectively). Furthermore, pre-miR-29b downregulates the hBACE1 mRNA expression in 80%. Overall, it was demonstrated that the recombinant pre-miR-29b using polyplexes allowed to decrease the hBACE1 and Abeta42 expression levels, improving the currently available methodologies of miRNA-based therapeutics.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/therapy;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/genetics;Amyloid beta-Peptides/metabolism;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Drug Compounding;Gene Expression;Gene Expression Regulation;Genetic Therapy;Humans;MicroRNAs/administration & dosage/chemistry/ genetics;Neurons/metabolism;RNA Interference;RNA Precursors/ genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Transfection
Epigenetic Methodologies for the Study of Celiac Disease	A. S. Perry, et al.	2015	26498619	Epigenetic regulation of gene expression is an important event for normal cellular homeostasis. Gene expression may be "switched" on or "turned" off via epigenetic means through adjustments in the architecture of DNA. These structural alterations result from histone posttranslation modifications such as acetylation and methylation on key arginine and lysine residues, or by alterations to DNA methylation. Other known epigenetic mechanisms invoke histone variant exchange or utilize noncoding RNAs (lncRNA/miRNA). Drugs which can target the epigenetic regulatory machinery are currently undergoing clinical trials in a wide variety of autoimmune diseases and cancer. Here we describe RNA isolation and the subsequent Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) methods, post-epigenetic drug treatment, to identify genes, which may be responsive to such epigenetic targeting agents. In addition, we depict a chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay to determine the association between chromatin transcription markers and DNA following pretreatment of cell cultures with a histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDi). This assay allows us to determine whether treatment with an HDi dynamically remodels the promoter region of genes, as judged by the differences in the PCR product between our treated and untreated samples. Finally we describe two commonly used methodologies for analyzing DNA methylation. The first, methylation-sensitive high resolution melt analysis (MS-HRM) is used for methylation screening of regions of interest, to identify potential epigenetic "hotspots." The second, quantitative methylation specific PCR (qMSP) is best applied when these hotspots are known, and offers a high-throughput, highly sensitive means of quantifying methylation at specific CpG dinucleotides.	Celiac Disease/ genetics;CpG Islands;Epigenesis, Genetic;Humans;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Chromatin immunoprecipitation;DNA methylation;Histone deacetylase;Rna;Rt-pcr
microRNAs in Drosophila regulate cell fate by repressing single mRNA targets	N. Perry, et al.	2017	28621414	Regulation of gene expression governs all aspects of the lifespan of the organism, such as embryonic development, stem cell differentiation, reproduction and aging. Among the most important regulators of these extremely complex processes are microRNAs (miRNAs), small non-coding RNAs that repress gene expression by binding to primary sequences on the mRNA of their target. Theoretically, the mere existence of a miRNA recognition sequence on a given mRNA is sufficient to generate a functional response. Since these short sequences are abundant, one miRNA can potentially bind to multiple targets, thus generating endless possible biological outcomes. However, is this really the case? Bioinformatics and molecular biology tools provide theoretical interaction predictions, but the data obtained by these methods is often too general and is impaired by false identifications. Therefore, a better understanding of the biological role of miRNAs requires mapping of the exact miRNA-mRNA interactions that occur in vivo. Drosophila melanogaster provides several unique advantages over other model organisms in the study of miRNA functional targeting. The majority of its miRNAs are evolutionarily conserved up to humans, suggesting that they regulate similar pathways across organisms. Complete genome-wide collections make Drosophila the only organism that enables constitutive and inducible gain and loss-of function manipulations of all annotated miRNAs. These powerful tools led to several groundbreaking discoveries of the role that miRNAs play in regulation of development, stem-cell function and aging, and proved that although many outcomes are possible, most Drosophila miRNAs regulate a single phenotype through downregulation of a single major mRNA target.	
Genome-wide analysis of miRNA expression reveals a potential role for miR-144 in brain aging and spinocerebellar ataxia pathogenesis	S. Persengiev, et al.	2011	20451302	Neurodegenerative pathologies associated with aging exhibit clinical and morphological features that are relatively specific to humans. To gain insights into the evolution of the regulatory mechanisms of the aged brain, we compared age-related differences in microRNA (miRNA) expression levels in the cortex and cerebellum of humans, chimpanzees and rhesus macaques on a genome-wide scale. In contrast to global miRNA downregulation, a small subset of miRNAs was found to be selectively upregulated in the aging brain of all 3 species. Notably, miR-144 that is highly conserved appeared to be associated with the aging progression. Moreover, miR-144 plays a central role in regulating the expression of ataxin 1 (ATXN1), the disease-causing gene for the development spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1). miRNA activity, including miR-144, -101 and -130 processing, was increased in the cerebellum and cortex of SCA1 and Alzheimer patients relative to healthy aged brains. Importantly, miR-144 and -101 inhibition increased ATXN1 levels in human cells. Thus, the activation of miRNA expression in the aging brain may serve to reduce the cytotoxic effect of polyglutamine expanded ATXN1 and the deregulation of miRNA expression may be a risk factor for disease development.	Adolescent;Aging/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Brain Chemistry/ genetics;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Genome-Wide Association Study/ methods;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Macaca mulatta;Male;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Middle Aged;Pan troglodytes;Spinocerebellar Ataxias/ genetics/ metabolism
The Impact of MicroRNAs on Brain Aging and Neurodegeneration	S. P. Persengiev, et al.	2012	22312330	The molecular instructions that govern gene expression regulation are encoded in the genome and ultimately determine the morphology and functional specifications of the human brain. As a consequence, changes in gene expression levels might be directly related to the functional decline associated with brain aging. Small noncoding RNAs, including miRNAs, comprise a group of regulatory molecules that modulate the expression of hundred of genes which play important roles in brain metabolism. Recent comparative studies in humans and nonhuman primates revealed that miRNAs regulate multiple pathways and interconnected signaling cascades that are the basis for the cognitive decline and neurodegenerative disorders during aging. Identifying the roles of miRNAs and their target genes in model organisms combined with system-level studies of the brain would provide more comprehensive understanding of the molecular basis of brain deterioration during the aging process.	
Human C9ORF72 Hexanucleotide Expansion Reproduces RNA Foci and Dipeptide Repeat Proteins but Not Neurodegeneration in BAC Transgenic Mice	O. M. Peters, et al.	2015	26637797	A non-coding hexanucleotide repeat expansion in the C9ORF72 gene is the most common mutation associated with familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). To investigate the pathological role of C9ORF72 in these diseases, we generated a line of mice carrying a bacterial artificial chromosome containing exons 1 to 6 of the human C9ORF72 gene with approximately 500 repeats of the GGGGCC motif. The mice showed no overt behavioral phenotype but recapitulated distinctive histopathological features of C9ORF72 ALS/FTD, including sense and antisense intranuclear RNA foci and poly(glycine-proline) dipeptide repeat proteins. Finally, using an artificial microRNA that targets human C9ORF72 in cultures of primary cortical neurons from the C9BAC mice, we have attenuated expression of the C9BAC transgene and the poly(GP) dipeptides. The C9ORF72 BAC transgenic mice will be a valuable tool in the study of ALS/FTD pathobiology and therapy.	Age Factors;Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/ genetics/mortality/pathology/physiopathology;Animals;Brain/metabolism/pathology;Cells, Cultured;Cerebral Cortex/cytology;Chromosomes, Artificial, Bacterial/genetics/metabolism;DNA Repeat Expansion/ genetics;Dipeptides/genetics/ metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Frontotemporal Dementia/ genetics/mortality/pathology/physiopathology;Gene Expression Regulation/genetics;Genotype;Humans;In Vitro Techniques;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/metabolism;Neurons/drug effects/physiology;Proteins/ genetics;Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS);C9orf72;RAN translation;RNA foci;frontotemporal dementia (FTD);microRNA;neurodegeneration;repeat expansions;transgenic mice
Amyloids as Sensors and Protectors (ASAP) hypothesis	R. D. Petrofes Chapa, et al.	2012	22330832	This paper propounds the Amyloids as Sensors and Protectors (ASAP) hypothesis. In this novel hypothesis, we provide evidence that amyloids are capable of sensing dysfunction, and after misfolding, initiate protective cellular responses. Amyloid proteins are initially protective, but chronic stress and overstimulation of the amyloid sensor leads to pathology. This proposed ASAP hypothesis has two sequential stages: (i) sensing, and then (ii) protection. Sensing involves a conformational change of amyloids in response to the cellular environment. The protection aspect translates conformational change into a cellular response via several mechanisms. The most obvious mechanism is that protein misfolding triggers the protective unfolded protein response, and thus downregulates protein translation and increases chaperone proteins. Other documented responses include metabolic pathways and microRNAs. This ASAP hypothesis has precedence, as amyloid sensors exist (evidenced by CPEB and Sup35), and both prion and amyloid-beta sensing redox stress and metals. Our hypothesis expands on previous observations to link sensing with inciting protective cellular response. Furthermore, we substantiate the ASAP hypothesis with previously published evidence from several amyloid diseases. This novel hypothesis links disparate findings in amyloid diseases: metabolic dysfunction, unfolding protein response/chaperones, modification of amyloids, and nutrient or caloric sensing. While this hypothesis can be applied to Alzheimer's disease, it goes beyond the Alzheimer's context. Thus all amyloid proteins can potentially act as sensors of misfolding-causing stress. Finally, this hypothesis will allow for the sensor mechanism and metabolic dysfunction to serve as biomarkers of the diseases as well as therapeutic targets early in disease pathology.	Alzheimer Disease/ drug therapy/ metabolism;Amyloid/ metabolism/ therapeutic use;Humans
Dynamic Change and Target Prediction of Axon-Specific MicroRNAs in Regenerating Sciatic Nerve	M. Phay, et al.	2015	26331719	Injury to axons in the peripheral nervous system induces rapid and local regenerative responses to form a new growth cone, and to generate a retrogradely transporting injury signal. The evidence for essential roles of intra-axonal protein synthesis during regeneration is now compelling. MicroRNA (miRNA) has recently been recognized as a prominent player in post-transcriptional regulation of axonal protein synthesis. Here, we directly contrast temporal changes of miRNA levels in the sciatic nerve following injury, as compared to those in an uninjured nerve using deep sequencing. Small RNAs (<200 nucleotides in length) were fractionated from the proximal nerve stumps to improve the representation of differential miRNA levels. Of 141 axoplasmic miRNAs annotated, 63 rat miRNAs showed significantly differential levels at five time points following injury, compared to an uninjured nerve. The differential changes in miRNA levels responding to injury were processed for hierarchical clustering analyses, and used to predict target mRNAs by Targetscan and miRanda. By overlapping these predicted targets with 2,924 axonally localizing transcripts previously reported, the overlapping set of 214 transcripts was further analyzed by the Gene Ontology enrichment and Ingenuity Pathway Analyses. These results suggest the possibility that the potential targets for these miRNAs play key roles in numerous neurological functions involved in ER stress response, cytoskeleton dynamics, vesicle formation, and neuro-degeneration and-regeneration. Finally, our results suggest that miRNAs could play a direct role in regenerative response and may be manipulated to promote regenerative ability of injured nerves.	Animals;Axons;Male;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Nerve Regeneration/ genetics;Polymerase Chain Reaction;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Sciatic Nerve/ physiology;Sequence Analysis, RNA
p16INK4a and its regulator miR-24 link senescence and chondrocyte terminal differentiation-associated matrix remodeling in osteoarthritis	D. Philipot, et al.	2014	24572376	INTRODUCTION: Recent evidence suggests that tissue accumulation of senescent p16INK4a-positive cells during the life span would be deleterious for tissue functions and could be the consequence of inherent age-associated disorders. Osteoarthritis (OA) is characterized by the accumulation of chondrocytes expressing p16INK4a and markers of the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP), including the matrix remodeling metalloproteases MMP1/MMP13 and pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin-8 (IL-8) and IL-6. Here, we evaluated the role of p16INK4a in the OA-induced SASP and its regulation by microRNAs (miRs). METHODS: We used IL-1-beta-treated primary OA chondrocytes cultured in three-dimensional setting or mesenchymal stem cells differentiated into chondrocyte to follow p16INK4a expression. By transient transfection experiments and the use of knockout mice, we validate p16INK4a function in chondrocytes and its regulation by one miR identified by means of a genome-wide miR-array analysis. RESULTS: p16INK4a is induced upon IL-1-beta treatment and also during in vitro chondrogenesis. In the mouse model, Ink4a locus favors in vivo the proportion of terminally differentiated chondrocytes. When overexpressed in chondrocytes, p16INK4a is sufficient to induce the production of the two matrix remodeling enzymes, MMP1 and MMP13, thus linking senescence with OA pathogenesis and bone development. We identified miR-24 as a negative regulator of p16INK4a. Accordingly, p16INK4a expression increased while miR-24 level was repressed upon IL-1-beta addition, in OA cartilage and during in vitro terminal chondrogenesis. CONCLUSIONS: We disclosed herein a new role of the senescence marker p16INK4a and its regulation by miR-24 during OA and terminal chondrogenesis.	Animals;Arthritis, Experimental/metabolism/pathology;Blotting, Western;Cell Aging/physiology;Cell Differentiation/physiology;Chondrocytes/metabolism/ pathology;Chondrogenesis/ physiology;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p16/ metabolism;Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay;Humans;Immunohistochemistry;Matrix Metalloproteinase 1/metabolism;Matrix Metalloproteinase 13/metabolism;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/cytology;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Osteoarthritis/ metabolism/pathology;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Transfection
The miRNome of Alzheimer's disease: consistent downregulation of the miR-132/212 cluster	S. Pichler, et al.	2017	27816213	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNA molecules, with essential functions in RNA silencing and post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. miRNAs appear to regulate the development and function of the nervous system. Alterations of miRNA expression have been associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). To characterize the AD miRNA signature, we examined genome-wide miRNA and mRNA expression patterns in the temporal cortex of AD and control samples. We validated our miRNA results by semiquantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in independent prefrontal cortex. Furthermore, we separated gray and white matter brain sections to identify the cellular origin of the altered miRNA expression. We observed genome-wide downregulation of hsa-miR-132-3p and hsa-miR-212-3p in AD with a stronger decrease in gray matter AD samples. We further identified 10 differently expressed transcripts achieving genome-wide levels of significance. Significantly deregulated miRNAs and mRNAs were correlated and examined for potential binding sites (in silico). This miRNome-wide study in AD provides supportive evidence and corroborates an important contribution of miR-132/212 and corresponding target mRNAs to the pathogenesis of AD.	Alzheimer's disease;Hsa-miR-132;Hsa-miR-212;Human cortical brain tissue;mRNA;microRNA
MicroRNA-34a regulates doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in rat	E. Piegari, et al.	2016	27694688	New strategies to prevent and early detect the cardiotoxic effects of the anticancer drug doxorubicin (DOXO) are required. MicroRNAs emerged as potential diagnostic, therapeutic and prognostic approaches in cardiovascular diseases. MiR-34a has a role in cardiac dysfunction and ageing and is involved in several cellular processes associated with DOXO cardiotoxicity. Our in vitro and in vivo results indicated that after DOXO exposure the levels of miR-34a are enhanced in cardiac cells, including Cardiac Progenitor Cells (CPCs). Since one of the determining event responsible for the initiation and evolution of the DOXO toxicity arises at the level of the CPC compartment, we evaluated if miR-34a pharmacological inhibition in these cells ameliorates the detrimental aftermath of the drug. AntimiR-34a has beneficial consequences on vitality, proliferation, apoptosis and senescence of DOXO-treated rat CPC. These effects are mediated by an increase of prosurvival miR-34a targets Bcl-2 and SIRT1, accompanied by a decrease of acetylated-p53 and p16INK4a. Importantly, miR-34a silencing also reduces the release of this miRNA from DOXO-exposed rCPCs, decreasing its negative paracrine effects on other rat cardiac cells. In conclusion, the silencing of miR-34a could represent a future therapeutic option for cardioprotection in DOXO toxicity and at the same time, it could be considered as a circulating biomarker for anthracycline-induced cardiac damage.	Sirt1;cellular senescence;doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity;miR-34a;rat cardiac progenitor cells
Transcriptomic profiling of platelet senescence and platelet extracellular vesicles	A. Pienimaeki-Roemer, et al.	2017	28026009	BACKGROUND: Platelets (PLTs) are derived from megakaryocytes during PLT shedding. Senescent or activated PLTs are expanded in vascular and neurological diseases and release PLT extracellular vesicles (PL-EVs). A systematic analysis of regular messenger RNA (mRNA) and small RNA composition in PLTs and PL-EVs during in vitro PLT senescence has not yet been published. STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: We isolated PLTs, total PL-EVs, and PL-EV subsets on Days 0 and 5 from human stored donor platelet concentrates. Isolated mRNA species and microRNA (miRNA) species were analyzed by microarrays and deep sequencing. Correlation of mRNA and miRNA species (miR) and miRNA target analyses were performed using bioinformatics. RESULTS: During in vitro PLT senescence, residual PLT mRNA species were decreased and partially converted to miRNA species. Residual mRNAs included encoded genes relevant for atherosclerosis, inflammation (matrix metallopeptidase 14 [MMP-14], granulin [GRN], angiopoietin like 2 [ANGPTL2]), and neurotransmission (dopamine receptor 2 [DRD2], gamma-aminobutyric acid type A receptor rho3 [GABRR3]). Compared with senescent PLTs, PL-EVs have up-regulated their miRNA species involved in "diabesity" and in vascular and metabolic disease (miR-144-3p, miR-486-5p, miR-142-5p, miR-451a, miR-25-3p, miR-145-5p, and let-7f-5p). The 100 highest expressed PL-EV miRNA species determined by microarrays were compared with the 100 highest expressed PL-EV miRNA species detected by deep sequencing. This approach resulted in 66 overlaps. The regulated miRNAs (assessed by both methods) were related to neurological disorders, including targets for Alzheimer's disease (e.g., beta-site amyloid precursor protein APP-cleaving enzyme 1 [BACE1], translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 40 homolog [TOMM40], neuron navigator 3 [NAV3]). CONCLUSION: During in vitro senescence, PLTs degrade large RNA species. Concomitantly, they up-regulate a distinct set of known small RNA species involved in atherosclerosis, inflammation, and neurodegeneration. PL-EVs enrich miRNA species, likely supporting the role of PLTs and PL-EVs in vascular homeostasis and as carriers of neurodegenerative disease-related miRNA cargo.	Blood Platelets/ metabolism;Cell Aging;Cell-Derived Microparticles/ metabolism;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis;RNA, Messenger/biosynthesis;Transcriptome
MicroRNA-181b regulates ALX/FPR2 receptor expression and proresolution signaling in human macrophages	A. M. Pierdomenico, et al.	2015	25505240	Regulatory mechanisms of ALX/FPR2, the lipoxin A4 receptor, expression have considerable relevance in inflammation resolution. Because microRNAs (miRs) are emerging as key players in inflammation resolution, here we examined microRNA-mediated regulation of ALX/FPR2 (lipoxin A4 receptor/formyl peptide receptor 2) expression. By matching data from bioinformatic algorithms, we found 27 miRs predicted to bind the 3'-UTR of ALX/FPR2. Among these, we selected miR-181b because of its link with inflammation. Using a luciferase reporter system, we assessed miR-181b binding to ALX/FPR2 3'-UTR. Consistent with this, miR-181b overexpression in human macrophages significantly down-regulated ALX/FPR2 protein levels (-25%), whereas miR-181b knockdown gave a significant increase in ALX/FPR2 (+60%). miR-181b levels decreased during monocyte to macrophage differentiation (-50%), whereas ALX/FPR2 expression increased significantly (+60%). miR-181b overexpression blunted lipoxin A4 (0.1-10 nm)- and resolvin D1 (0.01-10 nm)-stimulated phagocytic activity of macrophages. These results unravel novel regulatory mechanisms of ALX/FPR2 expression and ligand-evoked macrophages proresolution responses mediated by miR-181b, thus uncovering novel components of the endogenous inflammation resolution circuits.	3' Untranslated Regions;Docosahexaenoic Acids/pharmacology;Humans;Lipoxins/pharmacology;Macrophages/drug effects/ metabolism/physiology;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Phagocytosis;Receptors, Formyl Peptide/genetics/ metabolism;Receptors, Lipoxin/genetics/ metabolism;Signal Transduction;Eicosanoid;G Protein-coupled Receptor (GPCR);Gene Regulation;Inflammation;Lipid Signaling;Macrophage;MicroRNA (miRNA)
Low Intensity Exercise Training Improves Skeletal Muscle Regeneration Potential	T. Pietrangelo, et al.	2015	26733888	PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to determine whether 12 days of low-to-moderate exercise training at low altitude (598 m a.s.l.) improves skeletal muscle regeneration in sedentary adult women. METHODS: Satellite cells were obtained from the vastus lateralis skeletal muscle of seven women before and after this exercise training at low altitude. They were investigated for differentiation aspects, superoxide anion production, antioxidant enzymes, mitochondrial potential variation after a depolarizing insult, intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations, and micro (mi)RNA expression (miR-1, miR-133, miR-206). RESULTS: In these myogenic populations of adult stem cells, those obtained after exercise training, showed increased Fusion Index and intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations. This exercise training also generally reduced superoxide anion production in cells (by 12-67%), although not in two women, where there was an increase of ~15% along with a reduced superoxide dismutase activity. miRNA expression showed an exercise-induced epigenetic transcription profile that was specific according to the reduced or increased superoxide anion production of the cells. CONCLUSIONS: The present study shows that low-to-moderate exercise training at low altitude improves the regenerative capacity of skeletal muscle in adult women. The differentiation of cells was favored by increased intracellular calcium concentration and increased the fusion index. This low-to-moderate training at low altitude also depicted the epigenetic signature of cells.	low-to-moderate intensity exercise training;miRNA;oxidative status;satellite cells;superoxide anion;women
Gene expression profiling of brain samples from patients with Lewy body dementia	M. Pietrzak, et al.	2016	27666482	Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder in the elderly. The development and progression of DLB remain unclear. In this study we used next generation sequencing to assess RNA expression profiles and cellular processes associated with DLB in the anterior cingulate cortex, a brain region affected by DLB pathology. The expression measurements were made in autopsy brain tissues from 8 DLB subjects and 10 age-matched controls using AmpliSeq technology with ion torrent sequencing. The analysis of RNA expression profiles revealed 490 differentially expressed genes, among which 367 genes were down-regulated and 123 were up-regulated. Functional enrichment analysis of genes differentially expressed in DLB indicated downregulation of genes associated with myelination, neurogenesis, and regulation of nervous system development. miRNA binding sites enriched in these mRNAs yielded a list of candidate miRNAs participating in DLB pathophysiology. Our study provides a comprehensive picture of gene expression landscape in DLB, identifying key cellular processes associated with DLB pathology.	Aged;Brain/ metabolism/pathology;Case-Control Studies;Gene Expression Profiling;Gyrus Cinguli/metabolism/pathology;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Humans;Lewy Bodies/metabolism/pathology;Lewy Body Disease/ genetics/pathology;MicroRNAs/genetics;Nerve Degeneration/genetics/pathology;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Anterior cingulate cortex;Dementia with Lewy bodies;Neurodegeneration;RNA profiling by amplicon sequencing
Editorial: Mechanisms of Innate Neuroprotection	G. Pignataro	2016	27242662		Alzheimer's disease;epigenetic;ionic homeostasis;microRNA;preconditioning/postconditioning;seizures;stroke
MicroRNA predictors of longevity in Caenorhabditis elegans	Z. Pincus, et al.	2011	21980307	Neither genetic nor environmental factors fully account for variability in individual longevity: genetically identical invertebrates in homogenous environments often experience no less variability in lifespan than outbred human populations. Such variability is often assumed to result from stochasticity in damage accumulation over time; however, the identification of early-life gene expression states that predict future longevity would suggest that lifespan is least in part epigenetically determined. Such "biomarkers of aging," genetic or otherwise, nevertheless remain rare. In this work, we sought early-life differences in organismal robustness in unperturbed individuals and examined the utility of microRNAs, known regulators of lifespan, development, and robustness, as aging biomarkers. We quantitatively examined Caenorhabditis elegans reared individually in a novel apparatus and observed throughout their lives. Early-to-mid-adulthood measures of homeostatic ability jointly predict 62% of longevity variability. Though correlated, markers of growth/muscle maintenance and of metabolic by-products ("age pigments") report independently on lifespan, suggesting that graceful aging is not a single process. We further identified three microRNAs in which early-adulthood expression patterns individually predict up to 47% of lifespan differences. Though expression of each increases throughout this time, mir-71 and mir-246 correlate with lifespan, while mir-239 anti-correlates. Two of these three microRNA "biomarkers of aging" act upstream in insulin/IGF-1-like signaling (IIS) and other known longevity pathways, thus we infer that these microRNAs not only report on but also likely determine longevity. Thus, fluctuations in early-life IIS, due to variation in these microRNAs and from other causes, may determine individual lifespan.	Animals;Caenorhabditis elegans/ genetics/physiology;Epigenesis, Genetic/genetics/physiology;Gene Expression Profiling;Genetic Markers;Insulin/genetics/metabolism;Insulin-Like Growth Factor I/genetics/metabolism;Longevity/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Statistics as Topic
Oncosuppressive role of p53-induced miR-205 in triple negative breast cancer	C. Piovan, et al.	2012	22578566	An increasing body of evidence highlights an intriguing interaction between microRNAs and transcriptional factors involved in determining cell fate, including the well known "genome guardian" p53. Here we show that miR-205, oncosuppressive microRNA lost in breast cancer, is directly transactivated by oncosuppressor p53. Moreover, evaluating miR-205 expression in a panel of cell lines belonging to the highly aggressive triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) subtype, which still lacks an effective targeted therapy and characterized by an extremely undifferentiated and mesenchymal phenotype, we demonstrated that this microRNA is critically down-expressed compared to a normal-like cell line. Re-expression of miR-205 where absent strongly reduces cell proliferation, cell cycle progression and clonogenic potential in vitro, and inhibits tumor growth in vivo, and this tumor suppressor activity is at least partially exerted through targeting of E2F1, master regulator of cell cycle progression, and LAMC1, component of extracellular matrix involved in cell adhesion, proliferation and migration.	Animals;Base Sequence;Breast Neoplasms/ genetics/pathology;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Cycle/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Down-Regulation/genetics;E2F1 Transcription Factor/metabolism;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Laminin/metabolism;Mice;Mice, SCID;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Protein Binding;Response Elements/genetics;Transcription, Genetic;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ metabolism;Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays
Reduced miR-659-3p Levels Correlate with Progranulin Increase in Hypoxic Conditions: Implications for Frontotemporal Dementia	P. Piscopo, et al.	2016	27199656	Progranulin (PGRN) is a secreted protein expressed ubiquitously throughout the body, including the brain, where it localizes in neurons and is activated microglia. Loss-of-function mutations in the GRN gene are an important cause of familial frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). PGRN has a neurotrophic and anti-inflammatory activity, and it is neuroprotective in several injury conditions, such as oxygen or glucose deprivation, oxidative injury, and hypoxic stress. Indeed, we have previously demonstrated that hypoxia induces the up-regulation of GRN transcripts. Several studies have shown microRNAs (miRNAs) involvement in hypoxia. Moreover, in FTLD patients with a genetic variant of GRN (rs5848), the reinforcement of miR-659-3p binding site has been suggested to be a risk factor. Here, we report that miR-659-3p interacts directly with GRN 3'UTR as shown by luciferase assay in HeLa cells and ELISA and Western Blot analysis in HeLa and Kelly cells. Moreover, we demonstrate the physical binding between GRN mRNA and miR-659-3p employing a miRNA capture-affinity technology in SK-N-BE and Kelly cells. In order to study miRNAs involvement in hypoxia-mediated up-regulation of GRN, we evaluated miR-659-3p levels in SK-N-BE cells after 24 h of hypoxic treatment, finding them inversely correlated to GRN transcripts. Furthermore, we analyzed an animal model of asphyxia, finding that GRN mRNA levels increased at post-natal day (pnd) 1 and pnd 4 in rat cortices subjected to asphyxia in comparison to control rats and miR-659-3p decreased at pnd 4 just when GRN reached the highest levels. Our results demonstrate the interaction between miR-659-3p and GRN transcript and the involvement of miR-659-3p in GRN up-regulation mediated by hypoxic/ischemic insults.	Kelly cells;Sk-n-be;frontotemporal dementia;hypoxia;miR-659-3p;progranulin;rats
microRNA(interference) networks are embedded in the gene regulatory networks	L. Pitto, et al.	2008	18719386	microRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of endogenous 22-25 nt single-stranded RNA molecules that regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally. They are highly conserved among species with distinct temporal and spatial patterns of expression, each of them potentially interacting with hundreds of messenger RNAs. Since miRNAs, like transcription factors (TFs), are trans-acting factors that interact with cis-regulatory elements, they potentially generate a complex combinatorial code. Moreover, as TFs and genes containing binding sites for TFs have a high probability of being targeted by miRNAs, the basic interplay miRNA/TF renders miRNAs key components of gene regulatory networks. Several biological processes, including diseases such as cancer, have been causatively associated to disturbances of miRNAs/TF interplay both in vitro and in vivo. These aspects, cumulatively, indicate that miRNAs and transcription factors have a crucial role in determining cellular behaviour, highlighting the role of small RNA molecules in regulatory mechanisms and indicating other routes in the evolutionary path of gene expression.	Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Differentiation/genetics;Cell Proliferation;Gene Regulatory Networks;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Transcription Factors/genetics/ metabolism
miR-290 acts as a physiological effector of senescence in mouse embryo fibroblasts	L. Pitto, et al.	2009	19723773	The culture-induced senescence of mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEF) correlates with reduction of cell proliferation. In this work we found that the accumulation of cells with 4C DNA content and the transcriptional change of several microRNAs (miRNAs or miRs) are relevant events in culture senescence. By comparing the miRNA expression profiles of physiologically senescent MEF and that of senescent MEF induced by the downregulation of leukemia-related factor, we identified miR-290 as a common upregulated miRNA. When miR-290 was transfected in presenescent MEF, SA-beta-gal(+) cells and p16, two markers of culture senescence, increased compared with control, indicating that miR-290 is causally involved in senescence. Interestingly, nocodazole (NCZ), which induces G2/M block, increased the percentage of senescent cells as well as the expression of miR-290 and of the tumor suppressor p16, thus mimicking culture senescence. As miR-290 was overexpressed in NCZ-treated cells and it was able to induce senescence in proliferating MEF, we investigated whether miR-290 and NCZ could share common mechanisms of culture senescence. Whereas the induction of SA-beta-gal(+) by miR-290 was not strengthened by coupling its transfection with NCZ treatment, the transfection of the antagomir 290 (d-290) plus NCZ treatment, while blocking cells at G2/M, suppressed SA-beta-gal(+) and p16 induction. On the basis of these findings we conclude that miR-290 might act as a physiological effector of NCZ induced as well as culture senescence via p16 regulation expanding the role of this miRNA from embryonic stem to differentiated cells.	Animals;Cell Aging/drug effects/ genetics;Cells, Cultured;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p16/ genetics;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/genetics;Embryo, Mammalian/cytology;Fibroblasts/cytology/ metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Nocodazole/pharmacology;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction
miR-126-3p Promotes Matrix-Dependent Perivascular Cell Attachment, Migration and Intercellular Interaction	L. Pitzler, et al.	2016	26934179	microRNAs (miRNAs) can regulate the interplay between perivascular cells (PVC) and endothelial cells (EC) during angiogenesis, but the relevant PVC-specific miRNAs are not yet defined. Here, we identified miR-126-3p and miR-146a to be exclusively upregulated in PVC upon interaction with EC, determined their influence on the PVC phenotype and elucidate their molecular mechanisms of action. Specifically the increase of miR-126-3p strongly promoted the motility of PVC on the basement membrane-like composite and stabilized networks of EC. Subsequent miRNA target analysis showed that miR-126-3p inhibits SPRED1 and PLK2 expression, induces ERK1/2 phosphorylation and stimulates TLR3 expression to modulate cell-cell and cell-matrix contacts of PVC. Gain of expression experiments in vivo demonstrated that miR-126-3p stimulates PVC coverage of newly formed vessels and transform immature into mature, less permeable vessels. In conclusion we showed that miR-126-3p regulates matrix-dependent PVC migration and intercellular interaction to modulate vascular integrity. Stem Cells 2016;34:1297-1309.	Angiogenesis;Perivascular cells;Plk2;Spred1;Tlr3;miR-126-3p;miRNA
Evolution of microRNA (miRNA) Structure and Function in Plants and Animals: Relevance to Aging and Disease	A. I. Pogue, et al.	2014	26146648		
Micro RNA-125b (miRNA-125b) function in astrogliosis and glial cell proliferation	A. I. Pogue, et al.	2010	20347935	Micro RNAs (miRNAs) are post-transcriptional modulators of gene expression that regulate the stability and translation of their target messenger RNAs (mRNAs). Here we report that the levels of a human brain-enriched miRNA-125b are up-regulated in interleukin-6 (IL-6)-stressed normal human astrocytes (NHA), a treatment known to induce astrogliosis. In vitro, anti-miRNA-125b added exogenously to IL-6-stressed NHA cultures attenuated both glial cell proliferation and increased the expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 2A (CDKN2A), a miRNA-125b target and negative regulator of cell growth. A strong positive correlation between miRNA-125b abundance and the glial cell markers glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and vimentin, and CDKN2A down-regulation was noted in advanced Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in Down's syndrome (DS) brain, chronic neurological disorders associated with astrogliosis. The results suggest that miRNA-125b up-regulation contributes to astrogliosis and to defects in the cell cycle that are characteristic of degenerating brain tissues.	Actins/metabolism;Astrocytes/cytology/drug effects/ metabolism;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p16/metabolism;Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein/metabolism;Humans;Interleukin-6/pharmacology;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/pharmacology;Up-Regulation;Vimentin/metabolism
Characterization of an NF-kappaB-regulated, miRNA-146a-mediated down-regulation of complement factor H (CFH) in metal-sulfate-stressed human brain cells	A. I. Pogue, et al.	2009	19540598	Micro RNAs (miRNAs) represent a family of small ribonucleic acids (RNAs) that are post-transcriptional regulators of messenger RNA (mRNA) complexity. Brain cells maintain distinct populations of miRNAs that support physiologically normal patterns of expression, however, certain miRNA abundances are significantly altered in neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here we provide evidence in human neural (HN) cells of an aluminum-sulfate- and reactive oxygen species (ROS)-mediated up-regulation of an NF-kappaB-sensitive miRNA-146a that down-regulates the expression of complement factor H (CFH), an important repressor of inflammation. This NF-kappaB-miRNA-146a-CFH signaling circuit is known to be similarly affected by Abeta42 peptides and in AD brain. These aluminum-sulfate-inducible events were not observed in parallel experiments using iron-, magnesium-, or zinc-sulfate-stressed HN cells. An NF-kappaB-containing miRNA-146a-promoter-luciferase reporter construct transfected into HN cells showed significant up-regulation of miRNA-146a after aluminum-sulfate treatment that corresponded to decreased CFH gene expression. These data suggest that (1) as in AD brain, NF-kappaB-sensitive, miRNA-146a-mediated, modulation of CFH gene expression may contribute to inflammatory responses in aluminum-stressed HN cells, and (2) underscores the potential of nanomolar aluminum to drive genotoxic mechanisms characteristic of neurodegenerative disease processes.	Alum Compounds/ toxicity;Alzheimer Disease/chemically induced/genetics;Amyloid beta-Peptides/pharmacology;Base Sequence;Brain/ drug effects/metabolism;Cells, Cultured;Complement Factor H/ genetics;Down-Regulation;Humans;Magnesium Sulfate/pharmacology;MicroRNAs/agonists/genetics/ metabolism;NF-kappa B/agonists/ metabolism;Neurons/ drug effects/metabolism;Peptide Fragments/pharmacology;Reactive Oxygen Species/agonists/metabolism;Signal Transduction/drug effects;Up-Regulation
Aluminum, the genetic apparatus of the human CNS and Alzheimer's disease (AD)	A. I. Pogue and W. J. Lukiw	2016	26969391	The genomes of eukaryotes orchestrate their expression to ensure an effective, homeostatic and functional gene signaling program, and this includes fundamentally altered patterns of transcription during aging, development, differentiation and disease. These actions constitute an extremely complex and intricate process as genetic operations such as transcription involve the very rapid translocation and polymerization of ribonucleotides using RNA polymerases, accessory transcription protein complexes and other interrelated chromatin proteins and genetic factors. As both free ribonucleotides and polymerized single-stranded RNA chains, ribonucleotides are highly charged with phosphate, and this genetic system is extremely vulnerable to disruption by a large number of electrostatic forces, and primarily by cationic metals such as aluminum. Aluminum has been shown by independent researchers to be particularly genotoxic to the genetic apparatus, and it has become reasonably clear that aluminum disturbs genetic signaling programs in the CNS that bear a surprising resemblance to those observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. This paper will focus on a discussion of two molecular-genetic aspects of aluminum genotoxicity: (1) the observation that micro-RNA (miRNA)-mediated global gene expression patterns in aluminum-treated transgenic animal models of AD (Tg-AD) strongly resemble those found in AD; and (2) the concept of "human biochemical individuality" and the hypothesis that individuals with certain gene expression patterns may be especially sensitive and perhaps predisposed to aluminum genotoxicity.	Aging/genetics;Aluminum Compounds/ toxicity;Alzheimer Disease/chemically induced/ genetics;Animals;Central Nervous System/ drug effects;DNA Damage/ drug effects;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression Profiling;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Humans;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Mutagens/ toxicity;Aluminium;Aluminum;Alzheimer's disease;Analyse miARN;DNA array;Genotoxicity;Genotoxicite;Human biochemical individuality;Maladie d'Alzheimer;MicroARN;Molecules pro-inflammatoires;NF-kB;Pro-inflammatory;Self biochimique;miRNA array;microRNA (miRNA)
Up-regulation of NF-kB-sensitive miRNA-125b and miRNA-146a in metal sulfate-stressed human astroglial (HAG) primary cell cultures	A. I. Pogue, et al.	2011	22099153	Micro RNAs (miRNAs) constitute a unique class of small, non-coding ribonucleic acids (RNAs) that regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. The presence of two inducible miRNAs, miRNA-125b and miRNA-146a, involved in respectively, astroglial cell proliferation and in the innate immune and inflammatory response, is significantly up-regulated in human neurological disorders including Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study we analyzed abundances miRNA-125b and miRNA-146a in magnesium-, iron-, gallium, and aluminum-sulfate-stressed human-astroglial (HAG) cells, a structural and immune-responsive brain cell type. The combination of iron- plus aluminum-sulfate was found to be significantly synergistic in up-regulating reactive oxygen species (ROS) abundance, NF-small ka, CyrillicB-DNA binding and miRNA-125b and miRNA-146a expression. Treatment of metal-sulfate stressed HAG cells with the antioxidant phenyl butyl nitrone (PBN) or the NF-small ka, CyrillicB inhibitors curcumin, the metal chelator-anti-oxidant pyrollidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC), or the resveratrol analog CAY10512, abrogated both NF-small ka, CyrillicB signaling and induction of these miRNAs. Our observations further illustrate the potential of physiologically relevant amounts of aluminum and iron sulfates to synergistically up-regulate specific miRNAs known to contribute to AD-relevant pathogenetic mechanisms, and suggest that antioxidants or NF-small ka, CyrillicB inhibitors may be useful to quench metal-sulfate triggered genotoxicity.	Alum Compounds/ toxicity;Astrocytes/ drug effects/metabolism;Cells, Cultured;Curcumin/pharmacology;Cyclic N-Oxides/pharmacology;Drug Synergism;Environmental Pollutants/ toxicity;Ferrous Compounds/ toxicity;Free Radical Scavengers/pharmacology;Gene Expression;Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein/metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;NF-kappa B/antagonists & inhibitors/ metabolism;Oxidative Stress;Primary Cell Culture;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Up-Regulation/ drug effects
The proto-oncogene LRF is under post-transcriptional control of MiR-20a: implications for senescence	L. Poliseno, et al.	2008	18596985	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short 20-22 nucleotide RNA molecules that act as negative regulators of gene expression via translational repression: they have been shown to play a role in development, proliferation, stress response, and apoptosis. The transcriptional regulator LRF (Leukemia/lymphoma Related Factor) has been shown to prevent p19ARF transcription and consequently to inhibit senescence in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEF). Here we report, for the first time, that LRF is post-transcriptionally regulated by miR-20a. Using a gene reporter assay, direct interaction of miR-20a with the LRF 3'UTR is demonstrated. To validate the interaction miR-20a/3'UTR LRF miR-20a was over-expressed, either by transient transfection or retroviral infection, in wild type mouse embryo fibroblasts and in LRF-null MEF derived from LRF knock-out mice. We observed LRF decrease, p19ARF increase, inhibition of cell proliferation and induction of senescence. The comparison of miR-20a activity in wt and LRF-null MEF indicates that LRF is the main mediator of the miR-20a-induced senescence and that other targets are cooperating. As LRF down-regulation/p19ARF induction is always accompanied by E2F1 down-regulation and increase of p16, we propose that all these events act in synergy to accomplish miR-20a-induced senescence in MEF. Senescence has been recently revaluated as a tumor suppressor mechanism, alternative to apoptosis; from this point of view the discovery of new physiological "senescence inducer" appears to be promising as this molecule could be used as anticancer drug.	Animals;Base Sequence;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Proliferation;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p16/genetics/metabolism;DNA-Binding Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Down-Regulation;E2F1 Transcription Factor/genetics/metabolism;Fibroblasts/metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Proto-Oncogenes;RNA Interference;Transcription Factors/ genetics/metabolism
Visualization and quantitation of the expression of microRNAs and their target genes in neuroblastoma single cells using imaging cytometry	E. D. Ponomarev, et al.	2011	22123030	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are regulatory molecules that play an important role in many physiological processes, including cell growth, differentiation, and apoptosis. In addition to modulating normal cellular functions, it has also been reported that miRNAs are involved in the development of many pathologies, including cardiovascular diseases, cancer, inflammation, and neurodegeneration. Methods for the sensitive detection and measurement of specific miRNAs and their cellular targets are essential for both basic research endeavours, as well as diagnostic efforts aimed at understanding the role of miRNAs in disease processes. FINDINGS: In this study, we describe a novel, imaging cytometry-based protocol that allows for simultaneous visualisation and quantification of miRNAs and their putative targets. We validated this methodology in a neuronal cell line by examining the relationship of the miRNA miR-124 and its known target, cyclin dependent kinase 6 (CDK6). We found that ectopic overexpression of miR-124 resulted in the downregulation of CDK6, decreased cellular proliferation, and induced cellular morphological changes. CONCLUSIONS: This method is suitable for analysing the expression and cellular localisation of miRNAs and target proteins in small cell subsets within a heterogeneous cell suspension. We believe that our cytometry-based methodology will be easily adaptable to miRNA studies in many areas of biomedical research including neuroscience, stem cell biology, immunology, and oncology.	
Micro-RNA expression in cisplatin resistant germ cell tumor cell lines	M. Port, et al.	2011	21575166	BACKGROUND: We compared microRNA expression patterns in three cisplatin resistant sublines derived from paternal cisplatin sensitive germ cell tumor cell lines in order to improve our understanding of the mechanisms of cisplatin resistance. METHODS: Three cisplatin resistant sublines (NTERA-2-R, NCCIT-R, 2102EP-R) showing 2.7-11.3-fold increase in drug resistance after intermittent exposure to increasing doses of cisplatin were compared to their parental counterparts, three well established relatively cisplatin sensitive germ cell tumor cell lines (NTERA-2, NCCIT, 2102EP). Cells were cultured and total RNA was isolated from all 6 cell lines in three independent experiments. RNA was converted into cDNA and quantitative RT-PCR was run using 384 well low density arrays covering almost all (738) known microRNA species of human origin. RESULTS: Altogether 72 of 738 (9.8%) microRNAs appeared differentially expressed between sensitive and resistant cell line pairs (NTERA-2R/NTERA-2 = 43, NCCIT-R/NCCIT = 53, 2102EP-R/2102EP = 15) of which 46.7-95.3% were up-regulated (NTERA-2R/NTERA-2 = 95.3%, NCCIT-R/NCCIT = 62.3%, 2102EP-R/2102EP = 46.7%). The number of genes showing differential expression in more than one of the cell line pairs was 34 between NTERA-2R/NTERA-2 (79%) and NCCIT-R/NCCIT (64%), and 3 and 4, respectively, between these two cell lines and 2102EP-R/2102EP (about 27%). Only the has-miR-10b involved in breast cancer invasion and metastasis and has-miR-512-3p appeared to be up-regulated (2-3-fold) in all three cell lines. The hsa-miR-371-373 cluster (counteracting cellular senescence and linked with differentiation potency), as well as hsa-miR-520c/-520h (inhibiting the tumor suppressor p21) were 3.9-16.3 fold up-regulated in two of the three cisplatin resistant cell lines. Several new micro-RNA species missing an annotation towards cisplatin resistance could be identified. These were hsa-miR-512-3p/-515/-517/-518/-525 (up to 8.1-fold up-regulated) and hsa-miR-99a/-100/-145 (up to 10-fold down-regulated). CONCLUSION: Examining almost all known human micro-RNA species confirmed the miR-371-373 cluster as a promising target for explaining cisplatin resistance, potentially by counteracting wild-type P53 induced senescence or linking it with the potency to differentiate. Moreover, we describe for the first time an association of the up-regulation of micro-RNA species such as hsa-miR-512-3p/-515/-517/-518/-525 and down-regulation of hsa-miR-99a/-100/-145 with a cisplatin resistant phenotype in human germ cell tumors. Further functional analyses are warranted to gain insight into their role in drug resistance.	Antineoplastic Agents/pharmacology;Cell Line, Tumor;Cisplatin/ pharmacology;Drug Resistance, Neoplasm/ drug effects/genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/drug effects;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neoplasms, Germ Cell and Embryonal/ physiopathology
The classification, structure and functioning of Ago proteins in Eukaryotes	A. Poterala and J. Rzeszowska-Wolny	2016	27708205	Ago proteins are members of the highly specialized and conserved Argonaute family, primarily responsible for regulation of gene expression. As a part of RNA-induced silencing complexes (RISCs) Ago proteins are responsible for binding a short RNA and cleavage/inhibition of translation of target mRNAs. Phosphorylation may work as the switch between those two functions, but the role of magnesium ion concentration is also taken into consideration. Recent reports indicate that Ago proteins can interact with an mRNA and cause inhibition of translation without the participation of a short RNA. As key elements in RNA interference processes, Ago proteins are an important and intensively exploited area of research. Furthermore, these proteins are involved in the repair of DNA double-strand breaks by homologous recombination, modifications of chromatin, and alternative splicing. Their role in the cell cycle and senescence is also being studied. In addition, Ago expression is tissue-specific, which potentially may be used for diagnostic purposes. Understanding the mechanisms of Ago functioning is therefore crucial for understanding many cellular processes. The following article presents a detailed description of the Ago proteins including their post-translational modifications, recent data and hypotheses concerning their interactions with short RNAs and mRNAs as well as the mechanisms of siRNA/miRNA sorting into individual members of the Ago subfamily, and their role in eukaryotic cells. The latest classification of Ago proteins within the Argonaute family based on evolutionary studies and their possible interactions with DNA are also described.	
Oxidative Stress, Pro-Inflammatory Cytokines, and Antioxidants Regulate Expression Levels of MicroRNAs in Parkinson's Disease	K. N. Prasad	2017	28042771	Parkinson's disease (PD) is a slow progressive neurodegenerative disease associated with abnormal function of extrapyramidal system. Although several biochemical and genetic defects have been identified, increased oxidative stress and chronic inflammation are one of the earliest events that initiate and promote PD. Oxidative stress also participates in impaired non-motor symptoms.The levels of microRNAs that are evolutionarily conserved single-stranded non-coding RNAs of approximately 22 nucleotide in length are altered in PD. Downregulated microRNAs cause neurodegeneration by decreasing the levels of Nrf2 (nuclear transcriptional factor-2), mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin), and DJ-1 and Parkin genes; and by increasing the levels of alpha-synuclein, RelA, Bim and Calpain-1, and A2AR (adenosine A2A receptor). Upregulated microRNAs cause degeneration of nerve cells by decreasing the levels of IGF-1 (insulin growth factor-1), GRP78 (glucose regulated protein 78), DJ-1, and Hsc-70 (heat- shock protein-70) that enhanced alpha-synuclein levels by preventing its degradation. Antioxidants protect neurons by reducing oxidative stress and chronic inflammation. Therefore, they may also influence the levels of microRNAs. This review briefly describes the changes in the expression levels of microRNAs in PD. It proposes that free radicals and pro-inflammatory cytokines act as one of the signals that regulate the expression levels of microRNAs by affecting their transcription, processing or stability. It also suggests that one of the neuroprotective actions of antioxidants might be mediated by altering the expression levels of microRNAs.	
Endothelial Cell Senescence and Inflammaging: MicroRNAs as Biomarkers and Innovative Therapeutic Tools	F. Prattichizzo, et al.	2016	26240055	Aging is accompanied by a progressive decline of endothelial function and a progressive drift toward a systemic pro-inflammatory status that has been designated "inflammaging". Both phenomena are accelerated and exacerbated in patients with the most common age-related diseases (ARDs), including cancer. The finding that chronic cell stress activates a pro-inflammatory program leading to acquisition of the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) and to the propagation of senescence to surrounding cells through the secretome, suggests that cell senescence may have a role in both processes. Here we: i) describe the role of cell senescence in endothelial dysfunction, ii) emphasize the contribution of the endothelial cell SASP to inflammaging, and iii) suggest that selective removal of senescent endothelial cells may not only hinder such harmful processes, but also reduce the risk of developing ARDs and their complications. Although in vivo detection and targeting of senescent endothelial cells are still being investigated, it is likely that therapeutic strategies based on antioxidant and anti-inflammatory compounds would involve generalized anti-aging effects also benefiting endothelial cells. MicroRNA (miRNAs) - single-stranded, non-coding RNAs expressed by all living cells and involved in the epigenetic modulation of all transcriptional programs - may constitute an innovative, valuable tool to detect and target senescent endothelial cells and to devise treatments that can slow down the pro-inflammatory program activated in senescent endothelial cells.	Aging/drug effects/genetics/immunology/ pathology;Animals;Anti-Inflammatory Agents/pharmacology;Antioxidants/pharmacology;Cell Aging/drug effects;Endothelial Cells/drug effects/ physiology;Genetic Markers/genetics;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics
Anti-TNF-alpha treatment modulates SASP and SASP-related microRNAs in endothelial cells and in circulating angiogenic cells	F. Prattichizzo, et al.	2016	26943583	Endothelial cell senescence is characterized by acquisition of senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP), able to promote inflammaging and cancer progression. Emerging evidence suggest that preventing SASP development could help to slow the rate of aging and the progression of age-related diseases, including cancer. Aim of this study was to evaluate whether and how adalimumab, a monoclonal antibody directed against tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), a major SASP component, can prevent the SASP. A three-pronged approach has been adopted to assess the if adalimumab is able to: i) modulate a panel of classic and novel senescence- and SASP-associated markers (interleukin [IL]-6, senescence associated-beta-galactosidase, p16/Ink4a, plasminogen activator inhibitor 1, endothelial nitric oxide synthase, miR-146a-5p/Irak1 and miR-126-3p/Spred1) in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs); ii) reduce the paracrine effects of senescent HUVECs' secretome on MCF-7 breast cancer cells, through wound healing and mammosphere assay; and iii) exert significant decrease of miR-146a-5p and increase of miR-126-3p in circulating angiogenic cells (CACs) from psoriasis patients receiving adalimumab in monotherapy.TNF-alpha blockade associated with adalimumab induced significant reduction in released IL-6 and significant increase in eNOS and miR-126-3p expression levels in long-term HUVEC cultures.A significant reduction in miR-146a-5p expression levels both in long-term HUVEC cultures and in CACs isolated from psoriasis patients was also evident. Interestingly, conditioned medium from senescent HUVECs treated with adalimumab was less consistent than medium from untreated cells in inducing migration- and mammosphere- promoting effects on MCF-7 cells.Our findings suggest that adalimumab can induce epigenetic modifications in cells undergoing senescence, thus contributing to the attenuation of SASP tumor-promoting effects.	Gerotarget;Huvec;Sasp;miR-126-3p;miR-146a-5p;replicative senescence
SREBP-1c/MicroRNA 33b Genomic Loci Control Adipocyte Differentiation	N. L. Price, et al.	2016	26830228	White adipose tissue (WAT) is essential for maintaining metabolic function, especially during obesity. The intronic microRNAs miR-33a and miR-33b, located within the genes encoding sterol regulatory element-binding protein 2 (SREBP-2) and SREBP-1, respectively, are transcribed in concert with their host genes and function alongside them to regulate cholesterol, fatty acid, and glucose metabolism. SREBP-1 is highly expressed in mature WAT and plays a critical role in promoting in vitro adipocyte differentiation. It is unknown whether miR-33b is induced during or involved in adipogenesis. This is in part due to loss of miR-33b in rodents, precluding in vivo assessment of the impact of miR-33b using standard mouse models. This work demonstrates that miR-33b is highly induced upon differentiation of human preadipocytes, along with SREBP-1. We further report that miR-33b is an important regulator of adipogenesis, as inhibition of miR-33b enhanced lipid droplet accumulation. Conversely, overexpression of miR-33b impaired preadipocyte proliferation and reduced lipid droplet formation and the induction of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma) target genes during differentiation. These effects may be mediated by targeting of HMGA2, cyclin-dependent kinase 6 (CDK6), and other predicted miR-33b targets. Together, these findings demonstrate a novel role of miR-33b in the regulation of adipocyte differentiation, with important implications for the development of obesity and metabolic disease.	Adipogenesis/ genetics;Adipose Tissue, White/ cytology;Genetic Loci;Humans;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics/physiology;Stem Cells/cytology;Sterol Regulatory Element Binding Protein 1/ genetics
Long-term effects of peripubertal binge EtOH exposure on hippocampal microRNA expression in the rat	S. A. Prins, et al.	2014	24416161	Adolescent binge alcohol abuse induces long-term changes in gene expression, which impacts the physiological stress response and memory formation, two functions mediated in part by the ventral (VH) and dorsal (DH) hippocampus. microRNAs (miRs) are small RNAs that play an important role in gene regulation and are potential mediators of long-term changes in gene expression. Two genes important for regulating hippocampal functions include brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and sirtuin-1 (SIRT1), which we identified as putative gene targets of miR-10a-5p, miR-26a, miR-103, miR-495. The purpose of this study was to quantify miR-10a-5p, miR-26a, miR-103, miR-495 expression levels in the dorsal and ventral hippocampus of male Wistar rats during normal pubertal development and then assess the effects of repeated binge-EtOH exposure. In addition, we measured the effects of binge EtOH-exposure on hippocampal Drosha and Dicer mRNA levels, as well as the putative miR target genes, BDNF and SIRT1. Overall, mid/peri-pubertal binge EtOH exposure altered the normal expression patterns of all miRs tested in an age- and brain region-dependent manner and this effect persisted for up to 30 days post-EtOH exposure. Moreover, our data revealed that mid/peri-pubertal binge EtOH exposure significantly affected miR biosynthetic processing enzymes, Drosha and Dicer. Finally, EtOH-induced significant changes in the expression of a subset of miRs, which correlated with changes in the expression of their predicted target genes. Taken together, these data demonstrate that EtOH exposure during pubertal development has long-term effects on miRNA expression in the rat hippocampus.	Aging/drug effects/genetics;Animals;Binding Sites/genetics;Binge Drinking/ genetics;Ethanol/ adverse effects;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;Hippocampus/drug effects/growth & development/ metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Rats;Rats, Wistar;Sexual Maturation/drug effects/ genetics;Testosterone/blood;Time Factors
Sugars speed up the circle of life	M. Proveniers	2013	23539644	By regulating the expression of key microRNA molecules, sugar levels in leaves control the transition from the juvenile to the adult form in plants.	Arabidopsis/ metabolism;Cell Aging;Glucose/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Plant Leaves/ metabolism;RNA, Plant/ metabolism;Seedlings/ metabolism;Arabidopsis;developmental timing;heteroblasty;microRNA;phase change;plant biology;sugar
Environmental Enrichment Stimulates Immune Cell Secretion of Exosomes that Promote CNS Myelination and May Regulate Inflammation	K. M. Pusic, et al.	2016	26993508	Environmental enrichment (EE) consists of increased physical, intellectual, and social activity, and has wide-ranging effects, including enhancing cognition, learning and memory, and motor coordination. Animal studies have demonstrated that EE improves outcome of brain trauma and neurodegenerative disorders, including demyelinating diseases like multiple sclerosis, making it a promising therapeutic option. However, the complexity of applying a robust EE paradigm makes clinical use difficult. A better understanding of the signaling involved in EE-based neuroprotection may allow for development of effective mimetics as an alternative. In prior work, we found that exosomes isolated from the serum of rats exposed to EE impact CNS myelination. Exosomes are naturally occurring nanovesicles containing mRNA, miRNA, and protein, which play important roles in cell function, disease, and immunomodulation. When applied to hippocampal slice cultures or nasally administered to naive rats, EE-serum exosomes significantly increase myelin content, oligodendrocyte precursor (OPC) and neural stem cell levels, and reduce oxidative stress (OS). We found that rat EE exosomes were enriched in miR-219, which is necessary and sufficient for OPC differentiation into myelinating cells. Thus, peripherally produced exosomes may be a useful therapy for remyelination. Here, we aim to better characterize the impact of EE on CNS health and to determine the cellular source of nutritive exosomes found in serum. We found that exosomes isolated from various circulating immune cell types all increased slice culture myelin content, contained miR-219, and reduced OS, suggesting that EE globally alters immune function in a way that supports brain health.	Animals;Axons/ultrastructure;B-Lymphocytes/cytology;Brain/metabolism/pathology;Cells, Cultured;Central Nervous System/metabolism/ pathology;Dendritic Cells/cytology;Environment;Exosomes/ secretion;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Gliosis/pathology;Inflammation/genetics/ pathology;Leukocytes/ secretion;Lipopolysaccharides;Lymph Nodes/cytology;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Myelin Basic Protein/metabolism;Myelin Sheath/ metabolism;Oxidative Stress;Rats, Wistar;Spleen/cytology;T-Lymphocytes/cytology;Aging;Hippocampal slice culture;Multiple sclerosis;Neuroimmune;Remyelination
Identification of Differentially Expressed Genes through Integrated Study of Alzheimer's Disease Affected Brain Regions	N. Puthiyedth, et al.	2016	27050411	BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia in older adults that damages the brain and results in impaired memory, thinking and behaviour. The identification of differentially expressed genes and related pathways among affected brain regions can provide more information on the mechanisms of AD. In the past decade, several studies have reported many genes that are associated with AD. This wealth of information has become difficult to follow and interpret as most of the results are conflicting. In that case, it is worth doing an integrated study of multiple datasets that helps to increase the total number of samples and the statistical power in detecting biomarkers. In this study, we present an integrated analysis of five different brain region datasets and introduce new genes that warrant further investigation. METHODS: The aim of our study is to apply a novel combinatorial optimisation based meta-analysis approach to identify differentially expressed genes that are associated to AD across brain regions. In this study, microarray gene expression data from 161 samples (74 non-demented controls, 87 AD) from the Entorhinal Cortex (EC), Hippocampus (HIP), Middle temporal gyrus (MTG), Posterior cingulate cortex (PC), Superior frontal gyrus (SFG) and visual cortex (VCX) brain regions were integrated and analysed using our method. The results are then compared to two popular meta-analysis methods, RankProd and GeneMeta, and to what can be obtained by analysing the individual datasets. RESULTS: We find genes related with AD that are consistent with existing studies, and new candidate genes not previously related with AD. Our study confirms the up-regualtion of INFAR2 and PTMA along with the down regulation of GPHN, RAB2A, PSMD14 and FGF. Novel genes PSMB2, WNK1, RPL15, SEMA4C, RWDD2A and LARGE are found to be differentially expressed across all brain regions. Further investigation on these genes may provide new insights into the development of AD. In addition, we identified the presence of 23 non-coding features, including four miRNA precursors (miR-7, miR570, miR-1229 and miR-6821), dysregulated across the brain regions. Furthermore, we compared our results with two popular meta-analysis methods RankProd and GeneMeta to validate our findings and performed a sensitivity analysis by removing one dataset at a time to assess the robustness of our results. These new findings may provide new insights into the disease mechanisms and thus make a significant contribution in the near future towards understanding, prevention and cure of AD.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics;Biomarkers/metabolism;Brain/ metabolism/pathology;Brain Mapping;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans
A SNP site in pri-miR-124 changes mature miR-124 expression but no contribution to Alzheimer's disease in a Mongolian population	L. Qi, et al.	2012	22430032	Increasing evidence shows that single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) or mutations in microRNAs (miRNAs) sequence may affect the processing and function of miRNAs and participate in the occurrence of diseases. Although many SNPs of miRNAs were found, their functions in the pathological process of nerve cells were only just emerging. In the present study, the effect of the SNP of one neuronal miRNA, miR-124, on miRNA biogenesis and human genetic disease was investigated using in vitro cell line model and Alzheimer's disease (AD) in the Mongolian population. Bioinformatics prediction showed that a common G/C polymorphism designated rs531564 was found in the pri-miR-124 and the G allele changed the formation of a ring-shaped structure in the predicted secondary structure of the pri-miRNA for miR-124-1. Northern blot and real-time PCR analysis showed that the amount of mature miR-124 from the C/G heterozygosity of rs531564 was increased compared with the CC or GG homozygosity of rs531564. The expression of mature miR-124 from GG homozygosity was also higher than that from CC homozygosity. But in an association study of AD patients and controls, neither genotype nor allele distribution difference was found in AD patients compared with controls. Collectively, the present study is the first to evaluate the relationship between miR-124 and AD in the Mongolian population. SNP rs531564 of miR-124 may not represent a risk factor in the development of AD among Mongolian population.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alleles;Alzheimer Disease/ ethnology/ genetics/metabolism;Case-Control Studies;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Genotype;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/ genetics;Middle Aged;Mongolia/ethnology;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide/ genetics
[The expression pattern and possible function of microRNA-34a in neurons]	Y. T. Qi, et al.	2009	19697704	Using Northern blotting, ISH and FISH, we demonstrated miR-34a expresses with aging in the brain of rhesus monkey and rat. Correspondingly, the same trend was found in the primary cultures of cortical neurons. Moreover, we found that induction of miR-34a led to neuronal apoptosis by targeting BCL-2. Our study suggests that miR-34a may play critical roles in neuronal development and ageing.	Aging/genetics;Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Cells, Cultured;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Macaca mulatta/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neurons/cytology/ metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2/metabolism;Rats
Down-regulation of mir-542-3p promotes neointimal formation in the aging rat	D. H. Qian, et al.	2015	26026397	AIM: To explore mir-542-3p mediated inhibition of vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation through the inhibition of Syk activation. METHODS AND RESULTS: MicroRNA (mir)-542-3p was selected for analysis based on miRNA microarray and qRT-PCR results. In vitro mir-542-3p expression was significantly downregulated in old (o)VSMCs compared with young (y)VSMCs under serum stimulation conditions. Upregulation of mir-542-3p in oVSMCs significantly inhibited VSMC proliferation, whereas downregulation of mir-542-3p in yVSMCs increased VSMC proliferation. We identified spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) as a direct target of mir-542-3p by database search, and showed that its expression and phosphorylation were higher in oVSMCs than in yVSMCs after serum stimulation. Luciferase assays confirmed that Syk is a direct target of miR-3542-3p. Knock-down of mir-542-3p in yVSMCs inhibited the activation of the Syk downstream effectors STAT3 and STAT5, whereas mir-542-3p overexpression enhanced STAT3 and STAT5 activities. In a rat balloon injury model, mir-542-3p inhibited neointima formation and proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) protein expression. CONCLUSION: Mir-542-3p modulates VSMC proliferation via the Syk/STAT3-STAT5 axis. Downregulation of mir-542-3p may explain age-related neointimal hyperplasia in rats.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Cell Proliferation/genetics;Down-Regulation/ genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Muscle, Smooth, Vascular/metabolism;Myocytes, Smooth Muscle/metabolism;Neointima/ genetics;Phosphorylation/genetics;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Signal Transduction/genetics;Up-Regulation;Aging;MicroRNA;Proliferation;Syk;Vascular smooth muscle cells
A transcriptome-wide study on the microRNA- and the Argonaute 1-enriched small RNA-mediated regulatory networks involved in plant leaf senescence	J. Qin, et al.	2016	26206233	Leaf senescence is an important physiological process during the plant life cycle. However, systemic studies on the impact of microRNAs (miRNAs) on the expression of senescence-associated genes (SAGs) are lacking. Besides, whether other Argonaute 1 (AGO1)-enriched small RNAs (sRNAs) play regulatory roles in leaf senescence remains unclear. In this study, a total of 5,123 and 1,399 AGO1-enriched sRNAs, excluding miRNAs, were identified in Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa), respectively. After retrieving SAGs from the Leaf Senescence Database, all of the AGO1-enriched sRNAs and the miRBase-registered miRNAs of these two plants were included for target identification. Supported by degradome signatures, 200 regulatory pairs involving 120 AGO1-enriched sRNAs and 40 SAGs, and 266 regulatory pairs involving 64 miRNAs and 42 SAGs were discovered in Arabidopsis. Moreover, 13 genes predicted to interact with some of the above-identified target genes at protein level were validated as regulated by 17 AGO1-enriched sRNAs and ten miRNAs in Arabidopsis. In rice, only one SAG was targeted by three AGO1-enriched sRNAs, and one SAG was targeted by miR395. However, five AGO1-enriched sRNAs were conserved between Arabidopsis and rice. Target genes conserved between the two plants were identified for three of the above five sRNAs, pointing to the conserved roles of these regulatory pairs in leaf senescence or other developmental procedures. Novel targets were discovered for three of the five AGO1-enriched sRNAs in rice, indicating species-specific functions of these sRNA-target pairs. These results could advance our understanding of the sRNA-involved molecular processes modulating leaf senescence.	Arabidopsis/ genetics;Arabidopsis Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Argonaute Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Base Sequence;Gene Expression Regulation, Plant;Gene Regulatory Networks;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Annotation;Molecular Sequence Data;Oryza/ genetics;Plant Leaves/genetics/ growth & development;Plant Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;RNA Stability/genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;RNA, Plant/genetics/metabolism;Transcriptome/ genetics;Argonaute 1;leaf senescence;microRNA;protein interaction;senescence associated gene;small RNA
MicroRNA-125b inhibits lens epithelial cell apoptosis by targeting p53 in age-related cataract	Y. Qin, et al.	2014	25312242	MicroRNA-125b (miR-125b) has been implicated in a variety of diseases as either repressors or promoters, and plays crucial roles in many cellular processes such as cell differentiation, proliferation and apoptosis. Age-related cataract has become one of the most serious problems facing the aging population in the world. The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of miR-125b in the development of age-related cataract. We demonstrated that miR-125b was downregulated in both age-related cataract tissue and lens epithelial cell apoptosis induced by UV irradiation. We also identified the impact of miR-125b on apoptosis in a lens epithelial cell line. In vitro, miR-125b regulates human lens epithelial cell apoptosis at least in part by directly targeting p53. In addition,an inverse relationship between miR-125b and p53 expression was seen in age-related cataract tissue. In conclusion,this study suggests that miR-125b might be closely involved in the pathogenesis of cataract, and has the potential to be a diagnostic biomarker or even a therapeutic modality for cataract.	Age Factors;Apoptosis/ genetics/radiation effects;Blotting, Western;Cataract/ genetics/pathology;Cell Line;Cells, Cultured;Down-Regulation;Epithelial Cells/ metabolism;Flow Cytometry;Gene Expression;Humans;In Situ Nick-End Labeling;Lens, Crystalline/ metabolism/pathology;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ genetics;Ultraviolet Rays
The emerging landscape of circular RNA in life processes	S. Qu, et al.	2016	27617908	Circular RNAs (circRNAs) are a novel class of non-coding RNA that assumes a covalently closed continuous conformation. CircRNAs were previously thought to be the byproducts of splicing errors caused by low abundance and the technological limitations. With the recent development of high-throughput sequencing technology, numerous circRNAs have been discovered in many species. Recent studies have revealed that circRNAs are stable and widely expressed, and often exhibit cell type-specific or tissue-specific expression. Most circRNAs can be generated from exons, introns, or both. Remarkably, emerging evidence indicates that some circRNAs can serve as microRNA (miRNA) sponges, regulate transcription or splicing, and can interact with RNA binding proteins (RBPs). Moreover, circRNAs have been reported to play essential roles in myriad life processes, such as aging, insulin secretion, tissue development, atherosclerotic vascular disease risk, cardiac hypertrophy and cancer. Although circRNAs are ancient molecules, they represent a newly appreciated form of noncoding RNA and as such have great potential implications in clinical and research fields. Here, we review the current understanding of circRNA classification, function and significance in physiological and pathological processes. We believe that future research will increase our understanding of the regulation and function of these novel molecules.	Backsplicing;circular RNA;competitive endogenous RNA;microRNA sponge;transcriptional regulation;transcriptome
Common variation in the miR-659 binding-site of GRN is a major risk factor for TDP43-positive frontotemporal dementia	R. Rademakers, et al.	2008	18723524	Loss-of-function mutations in progranulin (GRN) cause ubiquitin- and TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43)-positive frontotemporal dementia (FTLD-U), a progressive neurodegenerative disease affecting approximately 10% of early-onset dementia patients. Here we expand the role of GRN in FTLD-U and demonstrate that a common genetic variant (rs5848), located in the 3'-untranslated region (UTR) of GRN in a binding-site for miR-659, is a major susceptibility factor for FTLD-U. In a series of pathologically confirmed FTLD-U patients without GRN mutations, we show that carriers homozygous for the T-allele of rs5848 have a 3.2-fold increased risk to develop FTLD-U compared with homozygous C-allele carriers (95% CI: 1.50-6.73). We further demonstrate that miR-659 can regulate GRN expression in vitro, with miR-659 binding more efficiently to the high risk T-allele of rs5848 resulting in augmented translational inhibition of GRN. A significant reduction in GRN protein was observed in homozygous T-allele carriers in vivo, through biochemical and immunohistochemical methods, mimicking the effect of heterozygous loss-of-function GRN mutations. In support of these findings, the neuropathology of homozygous rs5848 T-allele carriers frequently resembled the pathological FTLD-U subtype of GRN mutation carriers. We suggest that the expression of GRN is regulated by miRNAs and that common genetic variability in a miRNA binding-site can significantly increase the risk for FTLD-U. Translational regulation by miRNAs may represent a common mechanism underlying complex neurodegenerative disorders.	Aged;Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Brain/metabolism;DNA-Binding Proteins/ metabolism;Dementia/ genetics/metabolism;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Genetic Variation;Genotype;Humans;Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins/ chemistry/ genetics/metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/chemistry/genetics/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Molecular Sequence Data;Mutation;Protein Biosynthesis
A microRNA-129-5p/Rbfox crosstalk coordinates homeostatic downscaling of excitatory synapses	M. Rajman, et al.	2017	28487411	Synaptic downscaling is a homeostatic mechanism that allows neurons to reduce firing rates during chronically elevated network activity. Although synaptic downscaling is important in neural circuit development and epilepsy, the underlying mechanisms are poorly described. We performed small RNA profiling in picrotoxin (PTX)-treated hippocampal neurons, a model of synaptic downscaling. Thereby, we identified eight microRNAs (miRNAs) that were increased in response to PTX, including miR-129-5p, whose inhibition blocked synaptic downscaling in vitro and reduced epileptic seizure severity in vivo Using transcriptome, proteome, and bioinformatic analysis, we identified the calcium pump Atp2b4 and doublecortin (Dcx) as miR-129-5p targets. Restoring Atp2b4 and Dcx expression was sufficient to prevent synaptic downscaling in PTX-treated neurons. Furthermore, we characterized a functional crosstalk between miR-129-5p and the RNA-binding protein (RBP) Rbfox1. In the absence of PTX, Rbfox1 promoted the expression of Atp2b4 and Dcx. Upon PTX treatment, Rbfox1 expression was downregulated by miR-129-5p, thereby allowing the repression of Atp2b4 and Dcx. We therefore identified a novel activity-dependent miRNA/RBP crosstalk during synaptic scaling, with potential implications for neural network homeostasis and epileptogenesis.	RNA-binding protein;epilepsy;homeostatic plasticity;microRNA;synaptic scaling
Wnt inhibitory factor 1 suppresses cancer stemness and induces cellular senescence	I. Ramachandran, et al.	2014	24853424	Hyperactivation of the Wingless-type (Wnt)/beta-catenin pathway promotes tumor initiation, tumor growth and metastasis in various tissues. Although there is evidence for the involvement of Wnt/beta-catenin pathway activation in salivary gland tumors, the precise mechanisms are unknown. Here we report for the first time that downregulation of the Wnt inhibitory factor 1 (WIF1) is a widespread event in salivary gland carcinoma ex-pleomorphic adenoma (CaExPA). We also show that WIF1 downregulation occurs in the CaExPA precursor lesion pleomorphic adenoma (PA) and indicates a higher risk of progression from benign to malignant tumor. Our results demonstrate that diverse mechanisms including WIF1 promoter hypermethylation and loss of heterozygosity contribute to WIF1 downregulation in human salivary gland tumors. In accordance with a crucial role in suppressing salivary gland tumor progression, WIF1 re-expression in salivary gland tumor cells inhibited cell proliferation, induced more differentiated phenotype and promoted cellular senescence, possibly through upregulation of tumor-suppressor genes, such as p53 and p21. Most importantly, WIF1 significantly diminished the number of salivary gland cancer stem cells and the anchorage-independent cell growth. Consistent with this observation, WIF1 caused a reduction in the expression of pluripotency and stemness markers (OCT4 and c-MYC), as well as adult stem cell self-renewal and multi-lineage differentiation markers, such as WNT3A, TCF4, c-KIT and MYB. Furthermore, WIF1 significantly increased the expression of microRNAs pri-let-7a and pri-miR-200c, negative regulators of stemness and cancer progression. In addition, we show that WIF1 functions as a positive regulator of miR-200c, leading to downregulation of BMI1, ZEB1 and ZEB2, with a consequent increase in downstream targets such as E-cadherin. Our study emphasizes the prognostic and therapeutic potential of WIF1 in human salivary gland CaExPA. Moreover, our findings demonstrate a novel mechanism by which WIF1 regulates cancer stemness and senescence, which might have major implications in the field of cancer biology.	Adaptor Proteins, Signal Transducing/genetics/ metabolism;Adenoma, Pleomorphic/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Biomarkers, Tumor/genetics/ metabolism;Carcinoma/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Cell Aging;Cell Cycle Checkpoints;Cell Cycle Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;DNA Methylation;Disease Progression;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Loss of Heterozygosity;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Neoplastic Stem Cells/ metabolism/pathology;Promoter Regions, Genetic;Repressor Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Salivary Gland Neoplasms/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Time Factors;Transfection;Wnt Signaling Pathway
Downregulation of miR-130b~301b cluster is mediated by aberrant promoter methylation and impairs cellular senescence in prostate cancer	J. Ramalho-Carvalho, et al.	2017	28166834	BACKGROUND: Numerous DNA-damaging cellular stresses, including oncogene activation and DNA-damage response (DDR), may lead to cellular senescence. Previous observations linked microRNA deregulation with altered senescent patterns, prompting us to investigate whether epigenetic repression of microRNAs expression might disrupt senescence in prostate cancer (PCa) cells. METHODS: Differential methylation mapping in prostate tissues was carried using Infinium HumanMethylation450 BeadChip. After validation of methylation and expression analyses in a larger series of prostate tissues, the functional role of the cluster miR-130b~301b was explored using in vitro studies testing cell viability, apoptosis, invasion and DNA damage in prostate cancer cell lines. Western blot and RT-qPCR were performed to support those observations. RESULTS: We found that the miR-130b~301b cluster directs epigenetic activation of cell cycle inhibitors required for DDR activation, thus stimulating the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP). Furthermore, overexpression of miR-130b~301b cluster markedly reduced the malignant phenotype of PCa cells. CONCLUSIONS: Altogether, these data demonstrate that miR-130b~301b cluster overexpression might effectively induce PCa cell growth arrest through epigenetic regulation of proliferation-blocking genes and activation of cellular senescence.	Prostate cancer;Senescence;Senescence-associated secretory phenotype;miR-130b;miR-301b;microRNA
MicroRNA-212 negatively regulates starvation induced autophagy in prostate cancer cells by inhibiting SIRT1 and is a modulator of angiogenesis and cellular senescence	M. Ramalinga, et al.	2015	26439987	Among a number of non-coding RNAs, role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in cancer cell proliferation, cancer initiation, development and metastasis have been extensively studied and miRNA based therapeutic approaches are being pursued. Prostate cancer (PCa) is a major health concern and several deregulated miRNAs have been described in PCa. miR-212 is differentially modulated in multiple cancers however its function remains elusive. In this study, we found that miR-212 is downregulated in PCa tissues when compared with benign adjacent regions (n = 40). Also, we observed reduced levels of circulatory miR-212 in serum from PCa patients (n = 40) when compared with healthy controls (n = 32). Elucidating the functional role of miR-212, we demonstrate that miR-212 negatively modulates starvation induced autophagy in PCa cells by targeting sirtuin 1 (SIRT1). Overexpression of miR-212 also leads to inhibition of angiogenesis and cellular senescence. In conclusion, our study indicates a functional role of miR-212 in PCa and suggests the development of miR-212 based therapies.	Area Under Curve;Autophagy/ physiology;Biomarkers, Tumor/analysis/genetics;Blotting, Western;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/genetics;Humans;Laser Capture Microdissection;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neovascularization, Pathologic/ genetics;Prostatic Neoplasms/genetics/ pathology;RNA, Small Interfering;ROC Curve;Sirtuin 1/ metabolism;Transfection;Sirt1;autophagy;miR-212;microRNA;prostate cancer
FASTKD2 and human memory: functional pathways and prospects for novel therapeutic target development for Alzheimer's disease and age-associated memory decline	V. K. Ramanan and A. J. Saykin	2015	25916514		Aging/genetics/physiology;Alzheimer Disease/ drug therapy/ genetics;Apoptosis;Humans;Memory/ physiology;Memory Disorders/ drug therapy/ genetics;Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases/ drug effects/ genetics/physiology;Signal Transduction/ drug effects/ genetics;Alzheimer's disease;Fastkd2;cognitive aging;drug target;fas-associated serine/threonine kinase domains 2;functional genomics;inflammation;memory;microRNA;mitochondria
Loss of cardiac microRNA-mediated regulation leads to dilated cardiomyopathy and heart failure	P. K. Rao, et al.	2009	19679836	RATIONALE: Heart failure is a deadly and devastating disease that places immense costs on an aging society. To develop therapies aimed at rescuing the failing heart, it is important to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying cardiomyocyte structure and function. OBJECTIVE: microRNAs are important regulators of gene expression, and we sought to define the global contributions made by microRNAs toward maintaining cardiomyocyte integrity. METHODS AND RESULTS: First, we performed deep sequencing analysis to catalog the miRNA population in the adult heart. Second, we genetically deleted, in cardiac myocytes, an essential component of the machinery that is required to generate miRNAs. Deep sequencing of miRNAs from the heart revealed the enrichment of a small number of microRNAs with one, miR-1, accounting for 40% of all microRNAs. Cardiomyocyte-specific deletion of dgcr8, a gene required for microRNA biogenesis, revealed a fully penetrant phenotype that begins with left ventricular malfunction progressing to a dilated cardiomyopathy and premature lethality. CONCLUSIONS: These observations reveal a critical role for microRNAs in maintaining cardiac function in mature cardiomyocytes and raise the possibility that only a handful of microRNAs may ultimately be responsible for the dramatic cardiac phenotype seen in the absence of dgcr8.	Animals;Cardiomyopathy, Dilated/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Gene Deletion;Heart Failure/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Myocytes, Cardiac/metabolism/pathology;Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;RNA-Binding Proteins
MicroRNA Expression Patterns in Human Astrocytes in Relation to Anatomical Location and Age	V. T. Rao, et al.	2016	26802178	Anatomic distribution and age are variables linked to functions of astrocytes under physiologic and pathologic conditions. We measured the relative expression of a panel of microRNAs (miRNAs) in astrocytes captured by laser micro-dissection from normal human adult white and grey matter, human fetal white matter and germinal matrix samples. Although expression of most miRNAs was comparable between adult and fetal samples, regional differences were observed. In the adult cerebral cortex, expression of miRNAs in morphologically distinct inter-laminar astrocytes underlying the glial limitans differed from those in deeper cortical layers, suggesting functional specialization possibly related to structural stability and defense from potentially harmful factors in the cerebrospinal fluid. Differences between adult white and grey matter miRNA expression included higher expression of pro-inflammatory miRNAs in the former, potentially contributing to differences in inflammation between grey and white matter plaques in multiple sclerosis. Lower expression of miRNAs in fetal versus adult white matter astrocytes likely reflects the immaturity of these migrating cells. Highly expressed miRNAs in the fetal germinal matrix are probably relevant in development and also recapitulate some responses to injury. Future studies can address regional alterations of miRNA expression in pathological conditions.	Adult;Aged;Aging/ metabolism;Astrocytes/ metabolism;Female;Fetus/metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein/biosynthesis/genetics;Gray Matter/growth & development/metabolism;Humans;Inflammation/metabolism/pathology;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Pregnancy;White Matter/growth & development/metabolism;Young Adult
MicroRNAs in the aging female brain: a putative mechanism for age-specific estrogen effects	Y. S. Rao, et al.	2013	23720423	Menopause is characterized by the rapid age-related decline of circulating 17beta-estradiol (E(2)) levels in women, which can sometimes result in cognitive disorders such as impaired memory and increased anxiety. Hormone therapy (HT) is a widely used treatment for the adverse effects associated with menopause; however, evidence suggests that HT administered to postmenopausal women age 65 years and over can lead to increased risks for cognitive disorders. We hypothesized that these age-related changes in E(2) action are due to posttranscriptional gene regulation by microRNAs (miRNAs). miRNAs are a class of small noncoding RNAs that regulate gene expression by binding to the 3'-untranslated region of target mRNAs and subsequently target these transcripts for degradation. In the present study, 3- and 18-month-old female rats were oophorectomized (OVX) and treated 1 week after surgery with 2.5 mug E(2) once per day for 3 days. Total RNA was isolated from the ventral and dorsal hippocampus, central amygdala, and paraventricular nucleus. Our results showed that E(2) differentially altered miRNA levels in an age- and brain region-dependent manner. Multiple miRNA target prediction algorithms revealed putative target genes that are important for memory and stress regulation, such as BDNF, glucocorticoid receptor, and SIRT-1. Indeed, quantitative RT-PCR analyses of some of the predicted targets, such as SIRT1, showed that the mRNA expression levels were the inverse of the targeting miRNA, thereby confirming the prediction algorithms. Taken together, these data show that E(2) regulates miRNA expression in an age- and E(2)-dependent manner, which we hypothesize results in differential gene expression and consequently altered neuronal function.	Aging/ genetics;Amygdala/metabolism;Analysis of Variance;Animals;Brain/ metabolism;Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor/genetics;Estradiol/pharmacology;Estrogens/pharmacology;Female;Gene Expression/drug effects/ genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Hippocampus/metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Ovariectomy;Paraventricular Hypothalamic Nucleus/metabolism;Rats;Rats, Inbred F344;Receptors, Glucocorticoid/genetics;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Sirtuin 1/genetics;Time Factors
Prolonged ovarian hormone deprivation alters the effects of 17beta-estradiol on microRNA expression in the aged female rat hypothalamus	Y. S. Rao, et al.	2015	26460619	Administration of 17beta-estradiol (E2) has beneficial effects on cognitive function in peri- but not post-menopausal women, yet the molecular mechanisms underlying age-related changes in E2 action remain unclear. We propose that there is a biological switch in E2 action that occurs coincident with age and length of time after ovarian hormone depletion, and we hypothesized that age-dependent regulation of microRNAs (miRNAs) could be the molecular basis for that switch. Previously we showed that miRNAs are regulated by E2 in young compared to aged female rats. Here we tested whether increasing lengths of ovarian hormone deprivation in aged females altered E2 regulation of these mature miRNAs. In addition, we determined where along the miRNA biogenesis pathway E2 exerted its effects. Our results showed that age and increased lengths of ovarian hormone deprivation abolished the ability of E2 to regulate mature miRNA expression in the brain. Further, we show that E2 acted at specific points along the miRNA biogenesis pathway.	Aging;Animals;Blotting, Western;Brain/drug effects/ metabolism/pathology;Estradiol/ pharmacology;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/ drug effects;Hypothalamus/drug effects/ metabolism/pathology;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Ovariectomy;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Rats;Rats, Inbred F344;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Receptors, Estrogen/genetics/metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Gerotarget;estrogen;hypothalamus;microRNA
Tumor Protein p63/microRNA Network in Epithelial Cancer Cells	E. A. Ratovitski	2013	24396276	Non-coding microRNAs are involved in multiple regulatory mechanisms underlying response of cancer cells to stress leading to apoptosis, cell cycle arrest and autophagy. Many molecular layers are implicated in such cellular response including epigenetic regulation of transcription, RNA processing, metabolism, signaling. The molecular interrelationship between tumor protein (TP)-p53 family members and specific microRNAs is a key functional network supporting tumor cell response to chemotherapy and potentially playing a decisive role in chemoresistance of human epithelial cancers. TP63 was shown to modulate the expression of numerous microRNAs involved in regulation of epithelial cell proliferation, differentiation, senescence, "stemness" and skin maintenance, epithelial/ mesenchymal transition, and tumorigenesis in several types of epithelial cancers (e.g. squamous cell carcinoma, ovarian carcinoma, prostate carcinoma, gastric cancer, bladder cancer, and breast tumors), as well as in chemoresistance of cancer cells. TP63/microRNA network was shown to be involved in cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, autophagy, metabolism and epigenetic transcriptional regulation, thereby providing the groundwork for novel chemotherapeutic venues.	Apoptosis;Autophagy;Cell cycle arrest;Cell metabolism;Chemoresistance;Epigenetics;Tp63.;microRNA
Down-regulation of miR-15a/b accelerates fibrotic remodelling in the Type 2 diabetic human and mouse heart	S. Rawal, et al.	2017	28289072	Aim: Myocardial fibrosis is a well-established cause of increased myocardial stiffness and subsequent diastolic dysfunction in the diabetic heart. The molecular regulators that drive the process of fibrotic events in the diabetic heart are still unknown. We determined the role of the microRNA (miR)-15 family in fibrotic remodelling of the diabetic heart.Methods and results: Right atrial appendage (RAA) and left ventricular (LV) biopsy tissues collected from diabetic and non-diabetic (ND) patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery showed significant down-regulation of miR-15a and -15b. This was associated with marked up-regulation of pro-fibrotic transforming growth factor-beta receptor-1 (TGFbetaR1) and connective tissue growth factor (CTGF), direct targets for miR-15a/b and pro-senescence p53 protein. Interestingly, down-regulation of miR-15a/b preceded the development of diastolic dysfunction and fibrosis in Type 2 diabetic mouse heart. Therapeutic restoration of miR-15a and -15b in HL-1 cardiomyocytes reduced the activation of pro-fibrotic TGFbetaR1 and CTGF, and the pro-senescence p53 protein expression, confirming a causal regulation of these fibrotic and senescence mediators by miR-15a/b. Moreover, conditioned medium (CM) collected from cardiomyocytes treated with miR-15a/b markedly diminished the differentiation of diabetic human cardiac fibroblasts.Conclusion: Our results provide first evidence that early down-regulation of miR-15a/b activates fibrotic signalling in diabetic heart, and hence could be a potential target for the treatment/prevention of diabetes-induced fibrotic remodelling of the heart.	Animals;Blotting, Western;Cell Differentiation/genetics;Cell Line;Cells, Cultured;Connective Tissue Growth Factor/genetics/metabolism;Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Down-Regulation;Fibrosis/genetics/metabolism;Glucose/pharmacology;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Myocardium/ metabolism/pathology;Myocytes, Cardiac/cytology/drug effects/metabolism;Myofibroblasts/cytology/metabolism;Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases/genetics/metabolism;Receptors, Transforming Growth Factor beta/genetics/metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction/drug effects/genetics
MicroRNAs, Aging, Cellular Senescence, and Alzheimer's Disease	P. H. Reddy, et al.	2017	28253983	Aging is a normal process of living being. It has been reported that multiple cellular changes, including oxidative damage/mitochondrial dysfunction, telomere shortening, inflammation, may accelerate the aging process, leading to cellular senescence. These cellular changes induce age-related human diseases, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, cardiovascular, cancer, and skin diseases. Changes in somatic and germ-line DNA and epigenetics are reported to play large roles in accelerating the onset of human diseases. Cellular mechanisms of aging and age-related diseases are not completely understood. However, recent discoveries in molecular biology have revealed that microRNAs (miRNAs) are potential indicators of aging, cellular senescence, and Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of our chapter is to highlight recent advancements in miRNAs and their involvement in cellular changes in aging, cellular senescence, and AD. This chapter also critically evaluates miRNA-based therapeutic drug targets for aging and age-related diseases, particularly Alzheimer's.	Alzheimer's disease;MicroRNAs;Mitochondrial dysfunction;Phosphorylated tau;Synaptic damage
The effects of age upon the expression of three miRNAs in muscle stem cells isolated from two different porcine skeletal muscles	Z. Redshaw, et al.	2014	25542334	Aging is associated with a gradual loss of skeletal muscle mass and an impaired ability of this tissue to compensate for trauma. Studies in rodents and humans have also shown that resident stem cells within muscle have a reduced ability to proliferate and differentiate. In this study muscle stem cells have been isolated from two muscles, the diaphragm (DIA) and the semimembranosus (SM), from young and old pigs. The levels of three micro-RNAs (miRNAs) were measured when cells were in a proliferative phase and after 24 and 72h in differentiation medium. All three miRNAs are abundant in skeletal muscle with miR-1 and miR-206 known to regulate myogenic differentiation and miR-24 is involved in cell cycle regulation. The levels of expression of Pax7 and the myogenic regulatory factors MyoD and myogenin were also measured. There were marked differences in expression of all three miRNAs between the two age groups. Both miR-1 and miR-206 were reduced in the cells from the older animals. In contrast miR-24 expression was significantly higher in cells from older animals under differentiation conditions. There were also significant differences in the relative expression of all three miRNAs between cells from the SM and DIA in both young and old animals. The changes in miRNA expression described in this study that relate to age, may play a role in the impaired differentiation capacity of older muscle stem cells.	Aging/ metabolism;Animals;Cells, Cultured;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Muscle Development;Muscle, Skeletal/growth & development/ metabolism;MyoD Protein/genetics/metabolism;Myoblasts/cytology/ metabolism;PAX7 Transcription Factor/genetics/metabolism;Swine;Aging;Pax7;Porcine;Skeletal muscle;Stem cell;miRNA
Noncoding RNAs in Neurodegenerative Diseases	S. D. Rege, et al.	2013	23738143	Noncoding RNAs are widely known for their various essential roles in the development of central nervous system. It involves neurogenesis, neural stem cells generation, maintenance and maturation, neurotransmission, neural network plasticity, formation of synapses, and even brain aging and DNA damage responses. In this review, we will discuss the biogenesis of microRNA, various functions of noncoding RNA's specifically microRNAs (miRNAs) that act as the chief regulators of gene expression, and focus in particular on misregulation of miRNAs which leads to several neurodegenerative diseases as well as its therapeutic outcome. Recent evidences has shown that miRNAs expression levels are changed in patients with neurodegenerative diseases; hence, miRNA can be used as a potential diagnostic biomarker and serve as an effective therapeutic tool in overcoming various neurodegenerative disease processes.	
Comprehensive evaluation of serum microRNAs as biomarkers in multiple sclerosis	K. Regev, et al.	2016	27606352	OBJECTIVE: To identify circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) linked to disease stage and disability in multiple sclerosis (MS). METHODS: Sera from 296 participants including patients with MS, other neurologic diseases (Alzheimer disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis), and inflammatory diseases (rheumatoid arthritis and asthma) and healthy controls (HCs) were tested. miRNA profiles were determined using LNA (locked nucleic acid)-based quantitative PCR. Patients with MS were categorized according to disease stage and disability. In the discovery phase, 652 miRNAs were measured in sera from 26 patients with MS and 20 HCs. Following this, significant miRNAs (p < 0.05) from the discovery set were validated using quantitative PCR in 58 patients with MS, 30 HCs, and in 74 samples from other disease controls (Alzheimer disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, asthma, and rheumatoid arthritis). RESULTS: We validated 7 miRNAs that differentiate patients with MS from HCs (p < 0.05 in both the discovery and validation phase); miR-320a upregulation was the most significantly changing serum miRNA in patients with MS. We also identified 2 miRNAs linked to disease progression, with miR-27a-3p being the most significant. Ten miRNAs correlated with the Expanded Disability Status Scale of which miR.199a.5p had the strongest correlation with disability. Of the 15 unique miRNAs we identified in the different group comparisons, 12 have previously been reported to be associated with MS but not in serum. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings identify circulating serum miRNAs as potential biomarkers to diagnose and monitor disease status in MS. CLASSIFICATION OF EVIDENCE: This study provides Class III evidence that circulating serum miRNAs can be used as biomarker for MS.	
Company profile: Sistemic Ltd	J. Reid	2013	23998750	Founded in 2009 and headquartered in Glasgow, Scotland, UK, Sistemic Ltd has developed from a thought in the minds of four scientists into a company working globally to play its part in delivering the exciting opportunities for improvements in human health presented by cell therapies and regenerative medicine products (jointly referred to as the CT industry). Sistemic is now working in all corners of the world with some of the industry's leading companies to ensure that the products that they are developing, which will undoubtedly change the way we treat some of the major diseases and conditions currently placing a large burden on healthcare systems, including diabetes, dementia and cardiovascular disease, are as safe and efficacious as possible. Sistemic is also working to ensure that these products can be produced at a cost that will not lead to potentially transformational treatments being an additional financial burden on our already overburdened healthcare systems. Sistemic is using its revolutionary and IP-protected SistemQC (UK) technology to enhance understanding of characterization, process optimization and potency of CT products. The company is using the diagnostic power of miRNAs, a set of approximately 2000 ncRNAs that regulate a large percentage of the total gene expression of a cell. miRNAs are often present in a cell- and tissue-specific way that, at least in some cases, accounts for the phenotypic differences between cell types. These differences in miRNA expression can be interpreted by the miRNA profile and it is interpreting the instructive power of these profiles that underpin Sistemic's knowledge bases, giving CT companies a more comprehensive understanding of their cell populations with respect to their identity and functional capabilities. This knowledge is being used by companies to characterize, process, optimize and assess the efficacy of cell products.	Cell- and Tissue-Based Therapy;Drug Industry;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Regenerative Medicine;Reproducibility of Results
Lack of miRNA Misregulation at Early Pathological Stages in Drosophila Neurodegenerative Disease Models	A. Reinhardt, et al.	2012	23115562	Late onset neurodegenerative diseases represent a major public health concern as the population in many countries ages. Both frequent diseases such as Alzheimer disease (AD, 14% incidence for 80-84 year-old Europeans) or Parkinson disease (PD, 1.4% prevalence for >55 years old) share, with other low-incidence neurodegenerative pathologies such as spinocerebellar ataxias (SCAs, 0.01% prevalence) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD, 0.02% prevalence), a lack of efficient treatment in spite of important research efforts. Besides significant progress, studies with animal models have revealed unexpected complexities in the degenerative process, emphasizing a need to better understand the underlying pathological mechanisms. Recently, microRNAs (miRNAs), a class of small regulatory non-coding RNAs, have been implicated in some neurodegenerative diseases. The current data supporting a role of miRNAs in PD, tauopathies, dominant ataxias, and FTLD will first be discussed to emphasize the different levels of the pathological processes which may be affected by miRNAs. To investigate a potential involvement of miRNA dysregulation in the early stages of these neurodegenerative diseases we have used Drosophila models for seven diseases (PD, 3 FTLD, 3 dominant ataxias) that recapitulate many features of the human diseases. We performed deep sequencing of head small RNAs after 3 days of pathological protein expression in the fly head neurons. We found no evidence for a statistically significant difference in miRNA expression in this early stage of the pathological process. In addition, we could not identify small non-coding CAG repeat RNAs (sCAG) in polyQ disease models. Thus our data suggest that transcriptional deregulation of miRNAs or sCAG is unlikely to play a significant role in the initial stages of neurodegenerative diseases.	Parkinson disease;ataxia;deep sequencing;frontotemporal lobar degeneration;miRNA;neurodegenerative diseases;polyQ diseases
Circulating miRNAs as Potential Biomarkers of Age-Related Macular Degeneration	C. Ren, et al.	2017	28315863	Backgroud: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is one of the leading causes of irreversible blindness of the elder people. This research was intended to demonstrate the different expression of microRNAs (miRNA) in AMD patients and whether they can be used as biomarkers for AMD. METHODS: MiRNAs expression was measured by microarray of 6 AMD cases and 6 gender matched controls. In a larger-sample case-control study with 126 AMD cases and 140 controls, whole blood samples were detected for the differences of miRNA expression. RESULTS: A total of 216 differentially expressed miRNAs (111 increased and 105 decreased miRNAs) were detected from circulating miRNA microarray. Expanded case-control study results showed that the expression of miR-27a-3p, miR-29b-3p and miR-195-5p was increased significantly. Moreover, the level of miR-27a is higher in patients with wet AMD compared to patients with dry AMD. All 3 miRNAs showed a potential diagnostic value for AMD. CONCLUSION: Circulating miRNA levels were significantly varied in AMD patients. Three miRNAs, miR-27a-3p, miR-29b-3p and the miR-195-5p, might be potential diagnostic biomarkers for AMD.	Aged;Biomarkers/blood;Female;Humans;Macular Degeneration/ blood/ diagnosis;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood;Middle Aged;Age-related macular degeneration;Case-control;Diagnosis;Microarray;microRNA
A Micro-RNA Connection in BRaf(V600E)-Mediated Premature Senescence of Human Melanocytes	G. Ren, et al.	2012	22611400	Recent high-throughput-sequencing of the cancer genome has identified oncogenic mutations in BRaf genetic locus as one of the critical events in melanomagenesis. In normal cells, the activity of BRaf is tightly regulated. Gain-of-function mutations like those identified in melanoma frequently lead to enhanced cell-survival and unrestrained growth. The activating mutation of BRaf will also induce the cells to senesce. However, the mechanism by which the oncogenic BRaf induces the senescent barrier remains poorly defined. microRNAs have regulatory functions toward the expression of genes that are important in carcinogenesis. Here we show that expression of several microRNAs is altered when the oncogenic version of BRaf is introduced in cultured primary melanocytes and these cells undergo premature cellular senescence. These include eight microRNAs whose expression rates are significantly stimulated and three that are repressed. While most of the induced microRNAs have documented negative effects on cell cycle progression, one of the repressed microRNAs has proven oncogenic functions. Ectopic expression of some of these induced microRNAs increased the expression of senescence markers and induced growth arrest and senescence in primary melanocytes. Taken together, our results suggest that the change in microRNA expression rates may play a vital role in senescence induced by the oncogenic BRaf.	
[SIRT1 promote GTM cell DSBs repair and resist cellular senescence]	P. L. Ren, et al.	2014	25286678	OBJECTIVE: To study the relationship between SIRT1 and glaucoma trabecular meshwork cell (GTM) cell on DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) repair capability and resist cellular senescence. METHODS: The expressions of SIRT1 in GTM and normal trabecular meshwork (HTM) cell detected by RT-RCR and Western blot; HTM and GTM cells divided into four groups separately: Res group (treat cells with 0.5 micromol/L Resveratrol for 24 h), SIRT1-ShRNA group (cells infected with recombinant SIRT1-ShRNA), microRNA34a group (cells infected with recombinant microRNA34a) and control group. The expression level of SIRT1 in groups was detected by Western blot. SA-beta-Gal staining was applied to each group of cells at 10 h, 32 h, 3 d and 6 d to evaluate the senescence of the cells. DSBs and the expression of gamma-H2AX after treated with 1.33 mol/L H2O2 at 0 h, 1 h, 2 h were detected by comet electrophoresis and Western blot. RESULTS: The expression of SIRT1 were observed in both HTM and GTM cells, but the expression level in HTM was higher than that of GTM cells have the ability to express SIRT1, however the expression of SIRT1 was lower than HTM. Expression levels of SIRT1 presented following treads: Res > Control > microRNA34a > SIRT1-ShRNA. The dgree of senescence in GTM was higher than that in HTM cells when detected at the same time point with SA-beta-Gal staining. In the same cell line, the signs of senescence were appeared firstly and seriously in the cells treated with SIRT1-ShRNA in a time-dependent manner. Differently, after 24 h treatment with Res, the degree of senescence was decreased. The DSBs in GTM group was more than that of HTM group after treatment with oxidant when detected with Comet Electrophoresis and the the trends of the change was SIRT1-ShRNA > microRNA34a > Control > Res. The similar results also observed in the expression of gamma-H2AX. CONCLUSION: SIRT1 may be useful in predicting the development and prognosis of glaucoma; Res promotes the expression of SIRT1 significantly, and the SIRT1 may protects GTM from oxidative stress-induced DSBs, aging even apoptosis, and promotes cell cycle arrest, which may provide a new target to treat glaucoma.	Cell Aging;Cells, Cultured;DNA Breaks, Double-Stranded;DNA Repair;Glaucoma;Humans;Hydrogen Peroxide;Oxidative Stress;RNA, Small Interfering;Sirtuin 1/ metabolism;Stilbenes/pharmacology;Trabecular Meshwork/ cytology
Peripheral Blood MicroRNA Expression Profiles in Alzheimer's Disease: Screening, Validation, Association with Clinical Phenotype and Implications for Molecular Mechanism	R. J. Ren, et al.	2016	26497032	A series of investigations have been performed regarding microRNA (miRNA, miR) of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. However, most of these used microarray with neither validation by PCR nor any follow-up on the biological mechanism implicated by findings. Further, there were rarely any analyses linking clinical phenotype of de novo, drug-naive patients to cellular pathogenic mechanism(s) to date. Microarray screening followed by validation via quantitative PCR (Q-PCR) assays and the relationship between miRNAs and phenotypic indices were evaluated. Additionally, the cellular mechanism of miRNAs through effects of beta-site amyloid precursor protein (APP) cleaving enzyme (BACE1) was assessed. We identified 2 specific differentially expressed (DE) miRNAs (miR-339 and miR-425) as potential diagnostic biomarkers for AD and revealed that these DE miRNAs could be involved in modulating the pathogenesis of AD via BACE1 protein inhibition. The findings presented here reveal a detailed snapshot of the profile of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) miRNA changes in AD patients, association with clinical phenotype, and potential roles in cellular pathogenesis.	Alzheimer's disease;Expression profiles;MicroRNA;beta-site APP cleaving enzyme
Tumor-suppressive microRNA-449a induces growth arrest and senescence by targeting E2F3 in human lung cancer cells	X. S. Ren, et al.	2014	24211326	MicroRNA-449a (miR-449a) was significantly downregulated in 156 lung cancer tissues (p<0.001). We found that the low expression of miR-449a was highly correlated with cancer recurrence and survival of lung cancer patients. The transient introduction of miR-449a caused cell cycle arrest and cell senescence in A549 and 95D cells. Further studies revealed that E2F3 was a direct target of miR-449a in lung cancer cells. miR-449a also suppressed tumor formation in vivo in nude mice. These results suggest that miR-449a plays an important role in lung cancer tumorigenesis and that miR-449a might predict cancer recurrence and survival of lung cancer patients.	Animals;Carcinogenesis/genetics;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Cycle Checkpoints/genetics;Cell Growth Processes/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;E2F3 Transcription Factor/ genetics;Female;Genes, Tumor Suppressor;Humans;Lung Neoplasms/ genetics/pathology;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;RNA, Small Interfering/administration & dosage/genetics;Transfection;E2f3;Lung cancer;Senescence;Survival;miR-449a
MicroRNAs differentially present in the plasma of HIV elite controllers reduce HIV infection in vitro	R. Reynoso, et al.	2014	25081906	Elite controllers maintain HIV-1 viral loads below the limit of detection. The mechanisms responsible for this phenomenon are poorly understood. As microRNAs (miRNAs) are regulators of gene expression and some of them modulate HIV infection, we have studied the miRNA profile in plasma from HIV elite controllers and chronically infected individuals and compared against healthy donors. Several miRNAs correlate with CD4+ T cell count or with the known time of infection. No significant differences were observed between elite controllers and healthy donors; however, 16 miRNAs were different in the plasma of chronic infected versus healthy donors. In addition, levels of hsa-miR-29b-3p, hsa-miR-33a-5p and hsa-miR-146a-5p were higher in plasma from elite controllers than chronic infected and hsa-miR-29b-3p and hsa-miR-33a-5p overexpression significantly reduced the viral production in MT2 and primary T CD4+ cells. Therefore, levels of circulating miRNAs might be of diagnostic and/or prognostic value for HIV infection, and hsa-miR-29b-3p and miR-33a-5p may contribute to the design of new anti-HIV drugs.	Adult;CD4 Lymphocyte Count;CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes/virology;Case-Control Studies;Cells, Cultured;Disease Resistance;Female;HIV Infections/ blood/immunology;HIV-1/ immunology/physiology;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/genetics;Middle Aged;Transcriptome;Virus Replication;Young Adult
MicroRNA Profile in Patients with Alzheimer's Disease: Analysis of miR-9-5p and miR-598 in Raw and Exosome Enriched Cerebrospinal Fluid Samples	J. Riancho, et al.	2017	28269782	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs have been postulated as potential biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Exosomes are nanovesicles which transport microRNAs, proteins, and other cargos. It has been hypothesized that the exosome traffic might be increased in neurodegenerative disorders. OBJECTIVE: i) To assess the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) microRNA profile in a group of AD patients and control subjects and to validate a group of microRNAs previously reported by other authors. ii) To compare microRNA levels in whole CSF and in the exosome-enriched fraction in AD patients. METHODS: A panel of 760 microRNAs was analyzed in the CSF of 10 AD patients and 10 healthy subjects. Among microRNAs differently expressed, we selected those that had been previously reported by other authors. Candidates were validated in a larger group by individual qPCR assays. MicroRNA expression was also evaluated in exosome-enriched CSF samples of patients with AD and controls. RESULTS: Fifteen microRNAs were differently expressed in AD. MiR-9-5p, miR-134, and miR-598 were selected as candidates for further analysis. MiR-9-5p and miR-598 were detected in 50 and 75% of control CSF samples, respectively, while they were not detected in any AD CSF samples. We observed an opposite pattern when we evaluated the microRNA expression in the exosome-enriched CSF AD samples. No pattern variations were noted among healthy subjects. CONCLUSION: These data propose miR-9-5p and miR-598 as potential biomarkers for AD. Further studies in plasma and other body fluids will confirm their potential role as easily accessible biomarkers. In addition, our data suggest that exosome trafficking is different between AD and control subjects raising the need to take this phenomenon into consideration in future studies of AD biomarkers.	Alzheimer's disease;biomarkers;exosomes;microRNAs
A genome-wide survey for SNPs altering microRNA seed sites identifies functional candidates in GWAS	K. Richardson, et al.	2011	21995669	BACKGROUND: Gene variants within regulatory regions are thought to be major contributors of the variation of complex traits/diseases. Genome wide association studies (GWAS), have identified scores of genetic variants that appear to contribute to human disease risk. However, most of these variants do not appear to be functional. Thus, the significance of the association may be brought up by still unknown mechanisms or by linkage disequilibrium (LD) with functional polymorphisms. In the present study, focused on functional variants related with the binding of microRNAs (miR), we utilized SNP data, including newly released 1000 Genomes Project data to perform a genome-wide scan of SNPs that abrogate or create miR recognition element (MRE) seed sites (MRESS). RESULTS: We identified 2723 SNPs disrupting, and 22295 SNPs creating MRESSs. We estimated the percent of SNPs falling within both validated (5%) and predicted conserved MRESSs (3%). We determined 87 of these MRESS SNPs were listed in GWAS association studies, or in strong LD with a GWAS SNP, and may represent the functional variants of identified GWAS SNPs. Furthermore, 39 of these have evidence of co-expression of target mRNA and the predicted miR. We also gathered previously published eQTL data supporting a functional role for four of these SNPs shown to associate with disease phenotypes. Comparison of FST statistics (a measure of population subdivision) for predicted MRESS SNPs against non MRESS SNPs revealed a significantly higher (P = 0.0004) degree of subdivision among MRESS SNPs, suggesting a role for these SNPs in environmentally driven selection. CONCLUSIONS: We have demonstrated the potential of publicly available resources to identify high priority candidate SNPs for functional studies and for disease risk prediction.	Genome, Human;Genome-Wide Association Study;Humans;Linkage Disequilibrium;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Quantitative Trait Loci;RNA, Messenger/metabolism
The PLIN4 variant rs8887 modulates obesity related phenotypes in humans through creation of a novel miR-522 seed site	K. Richardson, et al.	2011	21533135	PLIN4 is a member of the PAT family of lipid storage droplet (LSD) proteins. Associations between seven single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) at human PLIN4 with obesity related phenotypes were investigated using meta-analysis followed by a determination if these phenotypes are modulated by interactions between PLIN4 SNPs and dietary PUFA. Samples consisted of subjects from two populations of European ancestry. We demonstrated association of rs8887 with anthropometrics. Meta-analysis demonstrated significant interactions between the rs8887 minor allele with PUFA n3 modulating anthropometrics. rs884164 showed interaction with both n3 and n6 PUFA modulating anthropometric and lipid phenotypes. In silico analysis of the PLIN4 3'UTR sequence surrounding the rs8887 minor A allele predicted a seed site for the human microRNA-522 (miR-522), suggesting a functional mechanism. Our data showed that a PLIN4 3'UTR luciferase reporter carrying the A allele of rs8887 was reduced in response to miR-522 mimics compared to the G allele. These results suggest variation at the PLIN4 locus, and its interaction with PUFA as a modulator of obesity related phenotypes, acts in part through creation of a miR-522 regulatory site.	3' Untranslated Regions;Adult;Aged;Alleles;Anthropometry;Carrier Proteins;Dietary Fats, Unsaturated/administration & dosage;Female;Genetic Drift;Humans;Intra-Abdominal Fat;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Obesity/ genetics;Perilipin-4;Phenotype;Phosphoproteins/genetics/ physiology;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Subcutaneous Fat
Gain-of-function lipoprotein lipase variant rs13702 modulates lipid traits through disruption of a microRNA-410 seed site	K. Richardson, et al.	2013	23246289	Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have identified hundreds of genetic variants that are associated with lipid phenotypes. However, data supporting a functional role for these variants in the context of lipid metabolism are scarce. We investigated the association of the lipoprotein lipase (LPL) variant rs13702 with plasma lipids and explored its potential for functionality. The rs13702 minor allele had been predicted to disrupt a microRNA (miR) recognition element (MRE) seed site (MRESS) for the human microRNA-410 (miR-410). Furthermore, rs13702 is in linkage disequilibrium (LD) with several SNPs identified by GWAS. We performed a meta-analysis across ten cohorts of participants that showed a statistically significant association of rs13702 with triacylglycerols (TAG) (p = 3.18 x 10(-42)) and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) (p = 1.35 x 10(-32)) with each copy of the minor allele associated with 0.060 mmol/l lower TAG and 0.041 mmol/l higher HDL-C. Our data showed that an LPL 3' UTR luciferase reporter carrying the rs13702 major T allele was reduced by 40% in response to a miR-410 mimic. We also evaluated the interaction between intake of dietary fatty acids and rs13702. Meta-analysis demonstrated a significant interaction between rs13702 and dietary polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) with respect to TAG concentrations (p = 0.00153), with the magnitude of the inverse association between dietary PUFA intake and TAG concentration showing -0.007 mmol/l greater reduction. Our results suggest that rs13702 induces the allele-specific regulation of LPL by miR-410 in humans. This work provides biological and potential clinical relevance for previously reported GWAS variants associated with plasma lipid phenotypes.	Cholesterol, HDL/blood;Dietary Fats;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Linkage Disequilibrium;Lipid Metabolism/genetics;Lipids/ blood;Lipoprotein Lipase/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Triglycerides/blood
Extracellular vesicle-mediated transfer of genetic information between the hematopoietic system and the brain in response to inflammation	K. Ridder, et al.	2014	24893313	Mechanisms behind how the immune system signals to the brain in response to systemic inflammation are not fully understood. Transgenic mice expressing Cre recombinase specifically in the hematopoietic lineage in a Cre reporter background display recombination and marker gene expression in Purkinje neurons. Here we show that reportergene expression in neurons is caused by intercellular transfer of functional Cre recombinase messenger RNA from immune cells into neurons in the absence of cell fusion. In vitro purified secreted extracellular vesicles (EVs) from blood cells contain Cre mRNA, which induces recombination in neurons when injected into the brain. Although Cre-mediated recombination events in the brain occur very rarely in healthy animals, their number increases considerably in different injury models, particularly under inflammatory conditions, and extend beyond Purkinje neurons to other neuronal populations in cortex, hippocampus, and substantia nigra. Recombined Purkinje neurons differ in their miRNA profile from their nonrecombined counterparts, indicating physiological significance. These observations reveal the existence of a previously unrecognized mechanism to communicate RNA-based signals between the hematopoietic system and various organs, including the brain, in response to inflammation.	Animals;Exosomes/ metabolism;Hematopoietic System/ metabolism;Inflammation/ metabolism;Integrases;Mice, Transgenic;Purkinje Cells/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/ metabolism;Recombination, Genetic
miRNA, siRNA, piRNA and argonautes: news in small matters	L. T. Riedmann and R. Schwentner	2010	20200493	Since the discovery of the first microRNA (miRNA) family member lin-4 in Caenorhabditis elegans by Lee et al. and RNA interference (RNAi) by Andrew Fire and his colleagues in the 1990s, the new field of regulatory non-coding RNAs has enormously gained momentum and importance. Small regulatory RNAs comprise small interfering RNAs (siRNAs), miRNAs and Piwi-associated small RNAs (piRNAs). Generated from double-stranded RNAs (dsRNAs), siRNAs trigger sequence-specific mRNA decay also known as RNA interference (RNAi). miRNAs in association with Argonaute (AGO ) and GW182 proteins, forming the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC), mediate fine tuning of gene expression and are involved in various biological key processes. An estimate of 500-1,000 miRNA genes exist in vertebrates and plants and about 100 in invertebrates. Each miRNA is predicted to target hundreds of mRNAs thus influencing key regulatory mechanisms of the cell. Consequently, deregulated miRNA expression has been suggested to contribute to the initiation and progression of human cancer and other diseases. piRNAs associated with Piwi proteins protect the animal germline from mobile genetic elements, thereby acting as a small RNA-based immune system.	Animals;Arabidopsis/genetics;Caenorhabditis elegans/genetics;Cell Aging;Computational Biology;Disease/genetics;Drosophila melanogaster/genetics;Eukaryotic Initiation Factors/ metabolism;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/ metabolism;RNA-Induced Silencing Complex/chemistry/genetics;Reproducibility of Results
MicroRNA miR-29 controls a compensatory response to limit neuronal iron accumulation during adult life and aging	R. Ripa, et al.	2017	28193224	BACKGROUND: A widespread modulation of gene expression occurs in the aging brain, but little is known as to the upstream drivers of these changes. MicroRNAs emerged as fine regulators of gene expression in many biological contexts and they are modulated by age. MicroRNAs may therefore be part of the upstream drivers of the global gene expression modulation correlated with aging and aging-related phenotypes. RESULTS: Here, we show that microRNA-29 (miR-29) is induced during aging in short-lived turquoise killifish brain and genetic antagonism of its function induces a gene-expression signature typical of aging. Mechanicistically, we identified Ireb2 (a master gene for intracellular iron delivery that encodes for IRP2 protein), as a novel miR-29 target. MiR-29 is induced by iron loading and, in turn, it reduces IRP2 expression in vivo, therefore limiting intracellular iron delivery in neurons. Genetically modified fish with neuro-specific miR-29 deficiency exhibit increased levels of IRP2 and transferrin receptor, increased iron content, and oxidative stress. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that age-dependent miR-29 upregulation is an adaptive mechanism that counteracts the expression of some aging-related phenotypes and its anti-aging activity is primarily exerted by regulating intracellular iron homeostasis limiting excessive iron-exposure in neurons.	
MicroRNA changes in human arterial endothelial cells with senescence: relation to apoptosis, eNOS and inflammation	C. Rippe, et al.	2012	22037549	A senescent phenotype in endothelial cells is associated with increased apoptosis, reduced endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and inflammation, which are implicated in arterial dysfunction and disease in humans. We tested the hypothesis that changes in microRNAs are associated with a senescent phenotype in human aortic endothelial cells (HAEC). Compared with early-passage HAEC, late-passage HAEC had a reduced proliferation rate and increased staining for senescence-associated beta-galactosidase and the tumor suppressor p16(INK4a). Late-passage senescent HAEC had reduced expression of proliferation-stimulating/apoptosis-suppressing miR-21, miR-214 and miR-92 and increased expression of tumor suppressors and apoptotic markers. eNOS-suppressing miR-221 and miR-222 were increased and eNOS protein and eNOS activation (phosphorylation at serine1177) were lower in senescent HAEC. Caveolin-1 inhibiting miR-133a was reduced and caveolin-1, a negative regulator of eNOS activity, was elevated in senescent HAEC. Inflammation-repressing miR-126 was reduced and inflammation-stimulating miR-125b was increased, whereas inflammatory proteins were greater in senescent HAEC. Development of a senescent arterial endothelial cell phenotype featuring reduced cell proliferation, enhanced apoptosis and inflammation and reduced eNOS is associated with changes in miRNAs linked to the regulation of these processes. Our results support the hypothesis that miRNAs could play a critical role in arterial endothelial cell senescence.	Aortitis/ pathology;Apoptosis/ physiology;Caspases/metabolism;Cell Aging/ physiology;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Chemokine CCL2/metabolism;Endothelial Cells/metabolism/ pathology;Endothelium, Vascular/metabolism/pathology;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Nitric Oxide Synthase Type III/ metabolism;Vascular Cell Adhesion Molecule-1/metabolism
Suitability of circulating miRNAs as potential prognostic markers in colorectal cancer	J. Ristau, et al.	2014	25472670	miRNAs are crucial in cellular processes and have been shown to be abnormally expressed in cancer tissue and the circulation. Circulating miRNAs may serve as a novel class of minimally invasive biomarkers for prognosis. Within a first methodologic study, we evaluated the miRNA profile kinetics in the plasma of patients with colorectal cancer after surgical tumor removal to identify potential suitability as prognostic biomarkers. This pilot study is based on the ColoCare Study, a cohort study of newly diagnosed patients with stage I-IV colorectal cancer. Colorectal cancer pre- and postsurgical blood (2-7 days after surgery) and 6 months follow-up blood from 35 patients were examined and candidate miRNAs were investigated in the plasma. miRNA levels were measured by two-step qRT-PCR. Statistical analysis was performed using log-transformed normalized CT values using SAS 9.3. Comparing pre- and postsurgical miRNA levels revealed a statistically significant decrease of nine circulating miRNAs after surgery (miR92a, miR18a, miR320a, miR106a, miR16-2, miR20a, miR223, miR17, and miR143). Analyses of plasma levels over all three time points demonstrated a statistically significant decrease from presurgery to postsurgery and re-increase from postsurgery to the six months follow-up time point of four circulating miRNAs (miR92a, miR320a, miR106a, and miR18a). We were able to show for the first time that in plasma miRNA profiles change within days after colorectal cancer surgery. Our results underscore the role of the investigated miRNAs in colorectal cancer and their potential utility as prognostic biomarkers. See all the articles in this CEBP Focus section, "Biomarkers, Biospecimens, and New Technologies in Molecular Epidemiology."	Adult;Aged;Colorectal Neoplasms/ genetics;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Prognosis
Diminished skeletal muscle microRNA expression with aging is associated with attenuated muscle plasticity and inhibition of IGF-1 signaling	D. A. Rivas, et al.	2014	24928197	Older individuals have a reduced capacity to induce muscle hypertrophy with resistance exercise (RE), which may contribute to the age-induced loss of muscle mass and function, sarcopenia. We tested the novel hypothesis that dysregulation of microRNAs (miRNAs) may contribute to reduced muscle plasticity with aging. Skeletal muscle expression profiling of protein-coding genes and miRNA was performed in younger (YNG) and older (OLD) men after an acute bout of RE. 21 miRNAs were altered by RE in YNG men, while no RE-induced changes in miRNA expression were observed in OLD men. This striking absence in miRNA regulation in OLD men was associated with blunted transcription of mRNAs, with only 42 genes altered in OLD men vs. 175 in YNG men following RE, demonstrating a reduced adaptability of aging muscle to exercise. Integrated bioinformatics analysis identified miR-126 as an important regulator of the transcriptional response to exercise and reduced lean mass in OLD men. Manipulation of miR-126 levels in myocytes, in vitro, revealed its direct effects on the expression of regulators of skeletal muscle growth and activation of insulin growth factor 1 (IGF-1) signaling. This work identifies a mechanistic role of miRNA in the adaptation of muscle to anabolic stimulation and reveals a significant impairment in exercise-induced miRNA/mRNA regulation with aging.	Adaptation, Physiological;Adult;Aged;Aging/ physiology;Biomarkers/ metabolism;Exercise/ physiology;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Insulin-Like Growth Factor I/ genetics/metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Muscle Fatigue;Muscle, Skeletal/ metabolism/pathology;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction;Young Adult;genomics;noncoding RNA;resistance exercise
p63-microRNA feedback in keratinocyte senescence	P. Rivetti di Val Cervo, et al.	2012	22228303	We investigated the expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) associated with replicative senescence in human primary keratinocytes. A cohort of miRNAs up-regulated in senescence was identified by genome-wide miRNA profiling, and their change in expression was validated in proliferative versus senescent cells. Among these, miRNA (miR)-138, -181a, -181b, and -130b expression increased with serial passages. miR-138, -181a, and -181b, but not miR-130b, overexpression in proliferating cells was sufficient per se to induce senescence, as evaluated by inhibition of BrdU incorporation and quantification of senescence-activated beta-galactosidase staining. We identified Sirt1 as a direct target of miR-138, -181a, and -181b, whereas DeltaNp63 expression was inhibited by miR-130b. We also found that DeltaNp63alpha inhibits miR-138, -181a, -181b, and -130b expression by binding directly to p63-responsive elements located in close proximity to the genomic loci of these miRNAs in primary keratinocytes. These findings suggest that changes in miRNA expression, by modulating the levels of regulatory proteins such as p63 and Sirt1, strongly contribute to induction of senescence in primary human keratinocytes, thus linking these two proteins. Our data also indicate that suppression of miR-138, -181a, -181b, and -130b expression is part of a growth-promoting strategy of DeltaNp63alpha in epidermal proliferating cells.	Blotting, Western;Bromodeoxyuridine;Cell Aging/ physiology;Cell Cycle/physiology;Cell Line;Cell Proliferation;Chromatin Immunoprecipitation;Computational Biology;Flow Cytometry;Gene Expression Regulation/ genetics/ physiology;Humans;Keratinocytes/ cytology/metabolism;Luciferases;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Sirtuin 1/ metabolism;Transcription Factors/ metabolism;Tumor Suppressor Proteins/ metabolism;beta-Galactosidase
Immortalized mouse embryo fibroblasts are resistant to miR-290-induced senescence regardless of p53 status	M. Rizzo, et al.	2011	21846807	The prosenescence role of miR-290 and nocodazole has been documented in primary mouse embryo fibroblasts (MEF), while it is not clear whether immortal murine fibroblasts are still responsive to these senescence inducing stimuli. To establish this point, immortal murine fibroblasts with functional (NIH3T3) or nonfunctional p53 (I-MEF) and low levels of miR-290 were tested for their capability to undergo senescence after exposure to either nocodazole or miR-290. Our results clearly indicate that nocodazole induces senescence only in NIH3T3 cells with a functional p53 but not in I-MEF lacking a functional p53. miR-290 overexpression is unable to address any of the tested immortalized clones toward senescence, regardless of the p53 status, suggesting that the prosenescence role of miR-290 is specific for primary but not for immortal murine fibroblasts. Moreover our findings suggest that the mere downregulation of a potential tumor suppressor miRNA in a given cell type does not necessarily imply that it behaves as a tumor suppressor.	Animals;Cell Aging/drug effects/ genetics;Cell Line, Transformed;Clone Cells;Embryo, Mammalian/ cytology;Fibroblasts/ cytology/drug effects/ metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;NIH 3T3 Cells;Nocodazole/pharmacology;Transfection;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ metabolism
The microRNA Machinery	T. C. Roberts	2015	26662984	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short (~22 nucleotides) single-stranded RNA molecules that primarily function to negatively regulate gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. miRNAs have thus been implicated in the regulation of a wide variety of normal cell functions and pathophysiological conditions. The miRNA machinery consists of a series of protein complexes which act to: (1) cleave the precursor-miRNA hairpin from its primary transcript (i.e. DROSHA and DGCR8); (2) traffic the miRNA hairpin between nucleus and cytoplasm (i.e. XPO5); (3) remove the loop sequence of the hairpin by a second nucleolytic cleavage reaction (i.e. DICER1); (4) facilitate loading of the mature miRNA sequence into an Argonaute protein (typically AGO2) as part of the RNA-Induced Silencing Complex (RISC); (5) guide the loaded RISC complex to complementary, or semi-complementary, target transcripts and (6) facilitate gene silencing via one of several possible mechanisms.	Animals;Argonaute Proteins/chemistry/ metabolism;Carboxypeptidases/chemistry/ metabolism;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/chemistry/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Karyopherins/chemistry/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/chemistry/genetics/ metabolism;Models, Molecular;Nucleic Acid Conformation;Protein Conformation;RNA Cleavage;RNA Transport;Ribonuclease III/chemistry/ metabolism;Ago2;Argonaute;Dgcr8;Dicer1;Dicer;Drosha;Exportin-5;Xpo5;microRNA
mRNA and microRNA transcriptomics analyses in a murine model of dystrophin loss and therapeutic restoration	T. C. Roberts, et al.	2016	26981371	Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a pediatric, X-linked, progressive muscle-wasting disorder caused by loss of function mutations affecting the gene encoding the dystrophin protein. While the primary genetic insult in DMD is well described, many details of the molecular and cellular pathologies that follow dystrophin loss are incompletely understood. To investigate gene expression in dystrophic muscle we have applied mRNA and microRNA (miRNA) microarray technology to the mdx mouse model of DMD. This study was designed to generate a complete description of gene expression changes associated with dystrophic pathology and the response to an experimental therapy which restores dystrophin protein function. These datasets have enabled (1) the determination of gene expression changes associated with dystrophic pathology, (2) identification of differentially expressed genes that are restored towards wild-type levels after therapeutic dystrophin rescue, (3) investigation of the correlation between mRNA and protein expression (determined by parallel mass spectrometry proteomics analysis), and (4) prediction of pathology associated miRNA-target interactions. Here we describe in detail how the data were generated including the basic analysis as contained in the manuscript published in Human Molecular Genetics with PMID 26385637. The data have been deposited in the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) with the accession number GSE64420.	
Multi-level omics analysis in a murine model of dystrophin loss and therapeutic restoration	T. C. Roberts, et al.	2015	26385637	Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a classical monogenic disorder, a model disease for genomic studies and a priority candidate for regenerative medicine and gene therapy. Although the genetic cause of DMD is well known, the molecular pathogenesis of disease and the response to therapy are incompletely understood. Here, we describe analyses of protein, mRNA and microRNA expression in the tibialis anterior of the mdx mouse model of DMD. Notably, 3272 proteins were quantifiable and 525 identified as differentially expressed in mdx muscle (P < 0.01). Therapeutic restoration of dystrophin by exon skipping induced widespread shifts in protein and mRNA expression towards wild-type expression levels, whereas the miRNome was largely unaffected. Comparison analyses between datasets showed that protein and mRNA ratios were only weakly correlated (r = 0.405), and identified a multitude of differentially affected cellular pathways, upstream regulators and predicted miRNA-target interactions. This study provides fundamental new insights into gene expression and regulation in dystrophic muscle.	Animals;Disease Models, Animal;Dystrophin/ genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Genetic Therapy;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred mdx;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Muscle, Skeletal/ metabolism/physiopathology;Muscular Dystrophy, Animal/genetics/ metabolism/physiopathology/therapy;Muscular Dystrophy, Duchenne/genetics/ metabolism/physiopathology/therapy;Mutation;Proteomics;RNA, Messenger/metabolism
miR-23a-3p causes cellular senescence by targeting hyaluronan synthase 2: possible implication for skin aging	K. Rock, et al.	2015	25264594	Even though aging and cellular senescence appear to be linked, the biological mechanisms interconnecting these two processes remain to be unravelled. Therefore, microRNA (miRNA/miR) profiles were analyzed ex vivo by means of gene array in fibroblasts isolated from young and old human donors. Expression of several miRNAs was positively correlated with donor age. Among them, miR-23a-3p was shown to target hyaluronan synthase 2 (HAS2). HA is a polysaccharide of the extracellular matrix that critically regulates the phenotype of fibroblasts. Indeed, both aged and senescent fibroblasts showed increased miR-23a-3p expression and secreted significantly lower amounts of HA compared with young and non-senescent fibroblasts. Ectopic overexpression of miR-23a-3p in non-senescent fibroblasts led to decreased HAS2-mediated HA synthesis, upregulation of senescence-associated markers, and decreased proliferation. In addition, siRNA-mediated downregulation of HAS2 and pharmacological inhibition of HA synthesis by 4-methylumbelliferone mimicked the effects of miR-23a-3p. In vivo, miR-23a-3p was upregulated and HAS2 was downregulated in the skin of old mice compared with young mice. Inhibition of HA synthesis by 4-methylumbelliferone in mice reduced dermal hydration and viscoelasticity, thereby mimicking an aged skin phenotype. Taken together, these findings appear to link miR-23a-3p and the HA microenvironment as effector mechanisms in both dermal aging and senescence.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Adult;Aged;Animals;Cell Aging;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/physiology;Female;Fibroblasts/metabolism;Glucuronosyltransferase/antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics;Humans;Hyaluronic Acid/metabolism;Hymecromone/pharmacology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Middle Aged;Skin Aging
MicroRNAs in Control of Stem Cells in Normal and Malignant Hematopoiesis	C. Roden and J. Lu	2016	27547713	Studies on hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) and leukemia stem cells (LSCs) have helped to establish the paradigms of normal and cancer stem cell concepts. For both HSCs and LSCs, specific gene expression programs endowed by their epigenome functionally distinguish them from their differentiated progenies. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), as a class of small non-coding RNAs, act to control post-transcriptional gene expression. Research in the past decade has yielded exciting findings elucidating the roles of miRNAs in control of multiple facets of HSC and LSC biology. Here we review recent progresses on the functions of miRNAs in HSC emergence during development, HSC switch from a fetal/neonatal program to an adult program, HSC self-renewal and quiescence, HSC aging, HSC niche, and malignant stem cells. While multiple different miRNAs regulate a diverse array of targets, two common themes emerge in HSC and LSC biology: miRNA mediated regulation of epigenetic machinery and cell signaling pathways. In addition, we propose that miRNAs themselves behave like epigenetic regulators, as they possess key biochemical and biological properties that can provide both stability and alterability to the epigenetic program. Overall, the studies of miRNAs in stem cells in the hematologic contexts not only provide key understandings to post-transcriptional gene regulation mechanisms in HSCs and LSCs, but also will lend key insights for other stem cell fields.	epigenetic machinery;hematopoietic stem cells;leukemia stem cells;miRNAs
Ambient particulate matter and microRNAs in extracellular vesicles: a pilot study of older individuals	R. S. Rodosthenous, et al.	2016	26956024	BACKGROUND: Air pollution from particulate matter (PM) has been linked to cardiovascular morbidity and mortality; however the underlying biological mechanisms remain to be uncovered. Gene regulation by microRNAs (miRNAs) that are transferred between cells by extracellular vesicles (EVs) may play an important role in PM-induced cardiovascular risk. This study sought to determine if ambient PM2.5 levels are associated with expression of EV-encapsulated miRNAs (evmiRNAs), and to investigate the participation of such evmiRNAs in pathways related to cardiovascular disease (CVD). METHODS: We estimated the short- (1-day), intermediate- (1-week and 1-month) and long-term (3-month, 6-month, and 1-year) moving averages of ambient PM2.5 levels at participants' addresses using a validated hybrid spatio-temporal land-use regression model. We collected 42 serum samples from 22 randomly selected participants in the Normative Aging Study cohort and screened for 800 miRNAs using the NanoString nCounter(R) platform. Mixed effects regression models, adjusted for potential confounders were used to assess the association between ambient PM2.5 levels and evmiRNAs. All p-values were adjusted for multiple comparisons. In-silico Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) was performed to identify biological pathways that are regulated by PM-associated evmiRNAs. RESULTS: We found a significant association between long-term ambient PM2.5 exposures and levels of multiple evmiRNAs circulating in serum. In the 6-month window, ambient PM2.5 exposures were associated with increased levels of miR-126-3p (0.74 +/- 0.21; p = 0.02), miR-19b-3p (0.52 +/- 0.15; p = 0.02), miR-93-5p (0.78 +/- 0.22; p = 0.02), miR-223-3p (0.74 +/- 0.22; p = 0.02), and miR-142-3p (0.81 +/- 0.21; p = 0.03). Similarly, in the 1-year window, ambient PM2.5 levels were associated with increased levels of miR-23a-3p (0.83 +/- 0.23; p = 0.02), miR-150-5p (0.90 +/- 0.24; p = 0.02), miR-15a-5p (0.70 +/- 0.21; p = 0.02), miR-191-5p (1.20 +/- 0.35; p = 0.02), and let-7a-5p (1.42 +/- 0.39; p = 0.02). In silico pathway analysis on PM2.5-associated evmiRNAs identified several key CVD-related pathways including oxidative stress, inflammation, and atherosclerosis. CONCLUSIONS: We found an association between long-term ambient PM2.5 levels and increased levels of evmiRNAs circulating in serum. Further observational studies are warranted to confirm and extend these important findings in larger and more diverse populations, and experimental studies are needed to elucidate the exact roles of evmiRNAs in PM-induced CVD.	Adult;Age Factors;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ blood/genetics;Air Pollutants/adverse effects/ blood;Biomarkers/blood;Cardiovascular Diseases/blood/chemically induced/genetics;Computer Simulation;Databases, Genetic;Extracellular Vesicles/ metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;Gene Regulatory Networks;Humans;Inhalation Exposure;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/genetics;Middle Aged;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Particle Size;Particulate Matter/adverse effects/ blood;Pilot Projects;Prospective Studies;Risk Assessment;Risk Factors;Time Factors;Young Adult
Human umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stromal cells protect against premature renal senescence resulting from oxidative stress in rats with acute kidney injury	C. E. Rodrigues, et al.	2017	28129785	BACKGROUND: Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) represent an option for the treatment of acute kidney injury (AKI). It is known that young stem cells are better than are aged stem cells at reducing the incidence of the senescent phenotype in the kidneys. The objective of this study was to determine whether AKI leads to premature, stress-induced senescence, as well as whether human umbilical cord-derived MSCs (huMSCs) can prevent ischaemia/reperfusion injury (IRI)-induced renal senescence in rats. METHODS: By clamping both renal arteries for 45 min, we induced IRI in male rats. Six hours later, some rats received 1 x 106 huMSCs or human adipose-derived MSCs (aMSCs) intraperitoneally. Rats were euthanised and studied on post-IRI days 2, 7 and 49. RESULTS: On post-IRI day 2, the kidneys of huMSC-treated rats showed improved glomerular filtration, better tubular function and higher expression of aquaporin 2, as well as less macrophage infiltration. Senescence-related proteins (beta-galactosidase, p21Waf1/Cip1, p16INK4a and transforming growth factor beta 1) and microRNAs (miR-29a and miR-34a) were overexpressed after IRI and subsequently downregulated by the treatment. The IRI-induced pro-oxidative state and reduction in Klotho expression were both reversed by the treatment. In comparison with huMSC treatment, the treatment with aMSCs improved renal function to a lesser degree, as well as resulting in a less pronounced increase in the renal expression of Klotho and manganese superoxide dismutase. Treatment with huMSCs ameliorated long-term kidney function after IRI, minimised renal fibrosis, decreased beta-galactosidase expression and increased the expression of Klotho. CONCLUSIONS: Our data demonstrate that huMSCs attenuate the inflammatory and oxidative stress responses occurring in AKI, as well as reducing the expression of senescence-related proteins and microRNAs. Our findings broaden perspectives for the treatment of AKI.	Acute kidney injury;Mesenchymal stromal cell;Senescence;Telomere;Umbilical cord;microRNA
Upregulation of miR-181 decreases c-Fos and SIRT-1 in the hippocampus of 3xTg-AD mice	C. J. Rodriguez-Ortiz, et al.	2014	25024332	MicroRNAs are a group of small RNAs that regulate diverse cellular processes including neuronal function. Recent studies have shown that dysregulation of specific microRNAs is critically involved in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Most of these reports have focused on microRNAs implicated in alterations of amyloid-beta and tau. However, studies exploring the relation between microRNAs dysregulation in AD and synaptic plasticity are scarce despite the well-known involvement of microRNAs in synaptic plasticity. Since impairments in synaptic plasticity and neuronal loss are two important features displayed in AD patients, it is feasible to hypothesize that alterations in plasticity-related microRNAs underlie AD progression. Here, levels of a small number of microRNAs implicated in normal neuronal function and/or plasticity were examined in an AD model. Twelve-month old 3xTg-AD mice with plaques and tangles presented a significant upregulation of miR-181 in the hippocampus compared to age-matched wild type mice. Increased miR-181 was not detected in pre-pathological 3xTg-AD mice. Analysis of predicted targets of miR-181 identified c-Fos and SIRT-1, proteins critically involved in memory formation. Both c-Fos and SIRT-1 levels were significantly decreased in the ventral hippocampus of twelve-month old 3xTg-AD mice. Overexpression of miR-181 in SH-SY5Y cells significantly decreased c-Fos and SIRT-1, strongly suggesting that miR-181 directly regulates the expression of these two proteins. These findings indicate a connection between miR-181 and proteins involve in synaptic plasticity and memory processing in a transgenic mouse model of AD. Our results suggest that microRNAs involved in synaptic plasticity might be an important factor that contributes to AD neuropathology.	Aging/metabolism;Alzheimer Disease/ metabolism;Animals;Cell Line, Tumor;Disease Models, Animal;Female;Humans;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-fos/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Sirtuin 1/ metabolism;Up-Regulation;Alzheimer's disease;miRNA;sirtuin-1;synaptic plasticity;translational regulation
Obesity short-circuits stemness gene network in human adipose multipotent stem cells	M. Roldan, et al.	2011	21846837	The discovery of adipose multipotent stem cells has provided new insights to explore cellular mechanisms involved in adipose tissue function. In the present work, we aimed to evaluate how the adipogenic environment influences the stemness of the resident multipotent stem cells. To achieve this goal, human omental multipotent stem cells (hO-MSCs) were isolated, expanded, and characterized in both healthy lean and morbidly obese individuals. We observed decreased cell proliferation, premature senescence, and increased cytokine secretion associated with increasing body mass index of the patients. Consistent with the latter finding, the hO-MSCs derived from patients with morbid obesity lose their multilineage differentiation capacity associated with a dysregulation in the Wnt, Notch, and Sonic Hedgehog signaling pathways. Moreover, microRNAs involved in the regulation of stemness, cell differentiation, and senescence were also up-regulated in obese individuals. Altogether, our data show that obesity causes a general short circuit in the stemness gene network of hO-MSCs.	Adipocytes/cytology/ metabolism;Adipogenesis/ genetics;Adult;Cell Aging;Cell Differentiation;Cell Proliferation;Chondrogenesis;Cytokines/biosynthesis;Female;Forkhead Transcription Factors/genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Regulatory Networks;Hedgehog Proteins/genetics;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;Multipotent Stem Cells/ metabolism;Obesity, Morbid/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Osteogenesis;Receptors, Notch/genetics;Signal Transduction/genetics;Thinness/genetics;Up-Regulation;Wnt Signaling Pathway/genetics
Reduced expression level of the cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein contributes to lung aging	P. Rolewska, et al.	2014	23991634	Lung aging is associated with morphological and physiological changes in which alterations in transcription factors, including the cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein (CREB), could play a role. We studied CREB in lung tissue from mice at different ages and in response to known age-related factors (e.g., cellular senescence and matrix modifications with advanced glycation end-products [AGEs]). Our study shows that protein but not mRNA levels of CREB are reduced in the lungs of old mice. CREB reduction was also observed in senescent human lung fibroblasts (WI-38, LuFi) and human lung epithelial cells (A549) cultured on AGE-modified collagen matrix. Reduction of CREB protein is partially based on pre- and posttranslational modifications as exhibited by an increase in the CREB-regulating microRNA 34b and CREB ubiquitination. Permanent down-regulation of CREB in lung cells impaired cell proliferation and viability and increased the number of cells with senescence-associated beta-galactosidase activity. CREB down-regulation was accompanied by the reduced expression of 165 genes in WI-38 fibroblasts and A549 epithelial cells, of which 15 genes showed a reduced expression in lung tissues of old mice. The CREB-dependent reduction in RAB27A coding for the Ras-related protein Rab27A and IGFBP3 coding for the insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 3 has been confirmed for aged lung tissue, senescent fibroblasts, and lung epithelial cells on AGE-modified collagen. Our data demonstrate that the reduced protein expression of CREB might play a significant role in lung aging by modifying the transcription of RAB27A, IGFBP3, and other target genes.	Aging/ genetics/metabolism/ physiology;Animals;Cell Aging/genetics/physiology;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Cell Survival/genetics/physiology;Cyclic AMP/ genetics/metabolism;Cyclic AMP Response Element-Binding Protein/ genetics/metabolism;Down-Regulation/genetics;Epithelial Cells/metabolism/physiology;Fibroblasts/metabolism/physiology;Humans;Insulin-Like Growth Factor Binding Protein 3/genetics/metabolism;Lung/metabolism/ physiology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics;Protein Modification, Translational/genetics;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional/genetics;Ubiquitination/genetics;beta-Galactosidase/genetics/metabolism;rab GTP-Binding Proteins/genetics/metabolism
Retinal and Circulating miRNAs in Age-Related Macular Degeneration: An In vivo Animal and Human Study	G. L. Romano, et al.	2017	28424619	Age related macular degeneration (AMD) is the leading cause of blindness among people aged 50 and over. Retinal deposition of amyloid-beta (Abeta) aggregates in AMD patients has suggested a potential link between AMD and Alzheimer's disease (AD). We have evaluated the differential retinal expression profile of miRNAs in a rat model of AMD elicited by Abeta. A serum profile of miRNAs in AMD patients has been also assessed using single TaqMan assay. Analysis of retina from rats intravitreally injected with Abeta revealed that miR-27a, miR-146a, and miR-155 were up-regulated in comparison to control rats. Seven miRNA (miR-9, miR-23a, miR-27a, miR-34a, miR-126, miR-146a, and miR-155) have been found to be dysregulated in serum of AMD patients in comparison to control group. Analysis of pathways has revealed that dysregulated miRNAs, both in the AMD animal model and in AMD patients, can target genes regulating pathways linked to neurodegeneration and inflammation, reinforcing the hypothesis that AMD is a protein misfolding disease similar to AD. In fact, miR-9, miR-23a, miR-27a, miR-34a, miR-146a, miR-155 have been found to be dysregulated both in AMD and AD. In conclusion, we suggest that miR-9, miR-23a, miR-27a, miR-34a, miR-146a, miR-155 represent potential biomarkers and new pharmacological targets for AMD.	Alzheimer's disease;age related macular degeneration;amyloid beta;miRNA;retinal diseases
MiR-2964a-5p binding site SNP regulates ATM expression contributing to age-related cataract risk	H. Rong, et al.	2017	28521290	This study was to explore the involvement of DNA repair genes in the pathogenesis of age-related cataract (ARC). We genotyped nine single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) of genes responsible to DNA double strand breaks (DSBs) in 804 ARC cases and 804 controls in a cohort of eye diseases in Chinese population and found that the ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) gene-rs4585:G>T was significantly associated with ARC risk. An in vitro functional test found that miR-2964a-5p specifically down-regulated luciferase reporter expression and ATM expression in the cell lines transfected with rs4585 T allele compared to rs4585 G allele. The molecular assay on human tissue samples discovered that ATM expression was down-regulated in majority of ARC tissues and correlated with ATM genotypes. In addition, the Comet assay of cellular DNA damage of peripheral lymphocytes indicated that individuals carrying the G allele (GG/GT) of ATM-rs4585 had lower DNA breaks compared to individuals with TT genotype. These findings suggested that the SNP rs4585 in ATM might affect ARC risk through modulating the regulatory affinity of miR-2964a-5p. The reduced DSBs repair might be involved in ARC pathogenesis.	DNA damage;age-related cataract;ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) gene;microRNA;single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)
Egr2::cre mediated conditional ablation of dicer disrupts histogenesis of mammalian central auditory nuclei	E. Rosengauer, et al.	2012	23152916	Histogenesis of the auditory system requires extensive molecular orchestration. Recently, Dicer1, an essential gene for generation of microRNAs, and miR-96 were shown to be important for development of the peripheral auditory system. Here, we investigated their role for the formation of the auditory brainstem. Egr2::Cre-mediated early embryonic ablation of Dicer1 caused severe disruption of auditory brainstem structures. In adult animals, the volume of the cochlear nucleus complex (CNC) was reduced by 73.5%. This decrease is in part attributed to the lack of the microneuronal shell. In contrast, fusiform cells, which similar to the granular cells of the microneural shell are derived from Egr2 positive cells, were still present. The volume reduction of the CNC was already present at birth (67.2% decrease). The superior olivary complex was also drastically affected in these mice. Nissl staining as well as Vglut1 and Calbindin 1 immunolabeling revealed that principal SOC nuclei such as the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body and the lateral superior olive were absent. Only choline acetyltransferase positive neurons of the olivocochlear bundle were observed as a densely packed cell group in the ventrolateral area of the SOC. Mid-embryonic ablation of Dicer1 in the ventral cochlear nucleus by Atoh7::Cre-mediated recombination resulted in normal formation of the cochlear nucleus complex, indicating an early embryonic requirement of Dicer1. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis of miR-96 demonstrated low expression in the embryonic brainstem and up-regulation thereafter, suggesting that other microRNAs are required for proper histogenesis of the auditory brainstem. Together our data identify a critical role of Dicer activity during embryonic development of the auditory brainstem.	Aging/metabolism/pathology;Animals;Auditory Pathways/abnormalities/metabolism/ pathology;Body Size;Brain Stem/abnormalities/metabolism/ pathology;Cochlea/pathology;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/ metabolism;Early Growth Response Protein 2/ metabolism;Gene Deletion;Integrases/ metabolism;Mammals/ metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Olivary Nucleus/abnormalities/metabolism/pathology;Ribonuclease III/ metabolism
Regulation of BACE1 by miR-29a/b in a cellular model of Spinocerebellar Ataxia 17	R. Roshan, et al.	2012	22664922	Polyglutamine diseases are a class of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by expansion of polyglutamine repeats, protein aggregation and neuronal cell death in specific regions of the brain. The expansion of a polyglutamine repeat in the TATA binding protein (TBP) causes a neurodegenerative disease, Spinocerebellar Ataxia 17 (SCA17). This disease is characterized by intranuclear protein aggregates and selective loss of cerebellar neurons, including Purkinje cells. MicroRNAs are small, endogenous, regulatory non-coding RNA molecules that bind to messenger RNAs with partial complementarity and interfere in their expression. Here, we used a cellular model of SCA17 where we expressed TBP with 16 (normal) or 59 (pathogenic) polyglutamines and found differential expression of several microRNAs. Specifically, we found two microRNAs, miR-29a/b, were down-regulated. With miR-29a/b down regulation, we found an increased expression of targets of miR-29a/b -beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1), p53 upregulated modulator of apoptosis (PUMA) and BAK, increased cytochrome c release and apoptosis. Restoration of miR-29a/b in the pathogenic polyglutamine background reduced the BACE1expression. While, antagomiRs against miR-29a/b resulted in an increase in BACE1 levels and neuronal apoptosis. In spite of the elevation of BACE1 in Alzhemiers disease, its role in neuronal cell death has not been established. Here, we show that increased BACE1 expression is not sufficient to cause apoptosis. However restoring level of BACE1 to normal in polyglutamine cells partially reduced neuronal apoptosis. We show a role for the miR-29a/b-BACE1 regulatory interaction in SCA17, suggesting that this microRNA could be part of a common molecular mechanism leading to neuronal cell death in multiple neurodegenerative disorders. The identification of a common mechanism of microRNA mediated neurodegeneration not only improves our understanding of the process, but also provides promising and novel therapeutic targets.	5' Untranslated Regions;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Apoptosis;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/ genetics/metabolism;Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Cell Line;Cytochromes c/metabolism;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism/physiology;RNA Interference;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics;Spinocerebellar Ataxias/ genetics/metabolism;TATA-Box Binding Protein/biosynthesis/genetics
Brain-specific knockdown of miR-29 results in neuronal cell death and ataxia in mice	R. Roshan, et al.	2014	24958907	Several microRNAs have been implicated in neurogenesis, neuronal differentiation, neurodevelopment, and memory. Development of miRNA-based therapeutics, however, needs tools for effective miRNA modulation, tissue-specific delivery, and in vivo evidence of functional effects following the knockdown of miRNA. Expression of miR-29a is reduced in patients and animal models of several neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, and spinocerebellar ataxias. The temporal expression pattern of miR-29b during development also correlates with its protective role in neuronal survival. Here, we report the cellular and behavioral effect of in vivo, brain-specific knockdown of miR-29. We delivered specific anti-miRNAs to the mouse brain using a neurotropic peptide, thus overcoming the blood-brain-barrier and restricting the effect of knockdown to the neuronal cells. Large regions of the hippocampus and cerebellum showed massive cell death, reiterating the role of miR-29 in neuronal survival. The mice showed characteristic features of ataxia, including reduced step length. However, the apoptotic targets of miR-29, such as Puma, Bim, Bak, or Bace1, failed to show expected levels of up-regulation in mice, following knockdown of miR-29. In contrast, another miR-29 target, voltage-dependent anion channel1 (VDAC1), was found to be induced several fold in the hippocampus, cerebellum, and cortex of mice following miRNA knockdown. Partial restoration of apoptosis was achieved by down-regulation of VDAC1 in miR-29 knockdown cells. Our study suggests that regulation of VDAC1 expression by miR-29 is an important determinant of neuronal cell survival in the brain. Loss of miR-29 results in dysregulation of VDAC1, neuronal cell death, and an ataxic phenotype.	Amino Acid Sequence;Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Ataxia/ genetics;Base Sequence;Brain/ metabolism;Cell Death/genetics;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Glycoproteins/chemistry/metabolism;Humans;Mice;Molecular Sequence Data;Organ Specificity/genetics;Peptide Fragments/chemistry/metabolism;Phenotype;RNA, Small Interfering/chemistry/genetics/metabolism;Viral Proteins/chemistry/metabolism;Voltage-Dependent Anion Channel 1/genetics/metabolism;Vdac1;ataxia;microRNA;neurodegeneration
miR-181 suppresses metastasis via MMP-14	E. Roth and J. Cao	2015	26527609		Animals;Humans;Matrix Metalloproteinase 14/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Neoplasm Metastasis;cancer;matrix metalloproteinase;metastasis;miRNA
Systems Biology Approaches to the Study of Biological Networks Underlying Alzheimer's Disease: Role of miRNAs	W. Roth, et al.	2016	26235078	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are emerging as significant regulators of mRNA complexity in the human central nervous system (CNS) thereby controlling distinct gene expression profiles in a spatio-temporal manner during development, neuronal plasticity, aging and (age-related) neurodegeneration, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Increasing effort is expended towards dissecting and deciphering the molecular and genetic mechanisms of neurobiological and pathological functions of these brain-enriched miRNAs. Along these lines, recent data pinpoint distinct miRNAs and miRNA networks being linked to APP splicing, processing and Abeta pathology (Lukiw et al., Front Genet 3:327, 2013), and furthermore, to the regulation of tau and its cellular subnetworks (Lau et al., EMBO Mol Med 5:1613, 2013), altogether underlying the onset and propagation of Alzheimer's disease. MicroRNA profiling studies in Alzheimer's disease suffer from poor consensus which is an acknowledged concern in the field, and constitutes one of the current technical challenges. Hence, a strong demand for experimental and computational systems biology approaches arises, to incorporate and integrate distinct levels of information and scientific knowledge into a complex system of miRNA networks in the context of the transcriptome, proteome and metabolome in a given cellular environment. Here, we will discuss the state-of-the-art technologies and computational approaches on hand that may lead to a deeper understanding of the complex biological networks underlying the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics;Animals;High-Throughput Screening Assays;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Models, Genetic;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Systems Biology/ methods
MicroRNA Regulation of Cholesterol Metabolism	N. Rotllan and C. Fernandez-Hernando	2012	22919472	Disruption of cellular cholesterol balance results in pathologic processes including atherosclerosis, metabolic syndrome, type II diabetes and Alzheimer's disease. Maintenance of cholesterol homeostasis requires constant metabolic adjustment, achieved partly through the fine regulation of the classical transcription factors (e.g., by SREBP and LXR), but also through members of a class of noncoding RNAs termed miRNAs. Some miRNAs have now been identified to be potent post-transcriptional regulators of lipid metabolism genes, including miR-122, miR-33, miR-758, and miR-106b. Different strategies have been developed to modulate miRNA effects for therapeutic purposes. The promise demonstrated by the use of anti-miRs in human preclinical studies, in the case of miR-122, raises the possibility that miR-33, miR-758, and miR-106b may become viable therapeutic targets in future. This review summarizes the evidence for a critical role of some miRNAs in regulating cholesterol metabolism and suggests novel ways to manage dyslipidemias and cardiovascular diseases.	
Altered gene expression in late-onset Alzheimer's disease due to SNPs within 3'UTR microRNA response elements	J. Roy and B. Mallick	2017	28286146	Late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) is a progressive and fatal neurodegenerative disease found in people older than 65years of age. Disease etiology is complex, as susceptibility has been linked to multiple gene variants conferred by single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). However, the molecular mechanisms by which SNPs contribute to LOAD pathogenesis have not been extensively studied, particularly for SNPs within the 3' untranslated regions (3'UTRs), the hubs for microRNA binding. Therefore, we screened for SNPs within the 3'UTRs of LOAD-associated genes that may create or destroy microRNA response elements (MREs) and thus alter gene expression. This investigation adopted an in-silico approach that integrated structural and thermodynamic features of miRNA target binding with screening using CLIP-seq data, followed by network analysis. This strategy identified three 3'UTR SNPs, rs10876135, rs5848, and rs5786996 that may alter the respective binding sites for the miRNAs hsa-miR-197-5p, hsa-miR-185-5p, and hsa-miR-34a-5p, all of which are upregulated in LOAD. The functional significance of these MRE-SNPs was assessed by potential regulation of biological networks known to be associated with LOAD. This is the first study to demonstrate a possible role for above 3'UTR MRE-SNPs in aberrant expression of target genes with functional consequences for LOAD.	Gene expression;Late-onset Alzheimer's disease;MicroRNA response elements;SNPs;miRNA
The Epigenetic Impact of Cruciferous Vegetables on Cancer Prevention	K. J. Royston and T. O. Tollefsbol	2015	25774338	The answer to chemoprevention has perhaps been available to the general public since the dawn of time. The epigenetic diet is of extreme interest, for research suggests that cruciferous vegetables are not only an important source of nutrients, but perhaps a key to eliminating cancer as life threatening disease. Cruciferous vegetables such as kale, cabbage, Brussels sprouts, and broccoli sprouts contain chemical components, such as sulforaphane (SFN) and indole-3-carbinol (I3C), which have been revealed to be regulators of microRNAs (miRNAs) and inhibitors of histone deacetylases (HDACs) and DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs). The mis-regulation and overexpression of these genes are responsible for the uncontrolled cellular proliferation and viability of various types of cancer cells. The field of epigenetics and its incorporation into modern medicinal investigation is an exponentially growing field of interest and it is becoming increasingly apparent that the incorporation of an epigenetic diet may in fact be the key to chemoprevention.	Dnmt;Hdac;apoptosis;broccoli;cabbage;cancer;chemo-preventive diet;cruciferous;epigenetics;food;glucosinolates;heredity;indole-3-carbinol;indoles;isothiocyanates;medicine;miRNA;nutrients;prevention;sulforaphane;vegetables
miR107 promotes the erythroid differentiation of leukemia cells via the downregulation of Cacna2d1	J. Ruan, et al.	2015	25373460	microRNAs (miRNAs) have been reported to be involved in various human diseases. They may have uses in diagnosis and as therapeutic targets, thus the discovery of novel miRNAs has the potential to provide clinical tools or shed light on novel mechanisms. In the current study, miR107 was revealed to be downregulated in chronic myeloid leukemia cells. Overexpression of miR107 in K562 and KCL22 chronic myeloid leukemia cells promotes erythroid differentiation, while having no effect on cell proliferation. Further bioinformatics predicted that one target of miR107 may be Cacna2d1, a calcium channel protein. A luciferase reporter assay and quantitative polymerase chain reaction were utilized to confirm that Cacna2d1 is a target molecule of miR-107. The effect of miR107 on K562 and KCL22 cells was mediated through the downregulation of Cacna2d1, as rescued expression of Cacna2d1 reversed the effects of miR107. In summary, the current study identified a novel miRNA that is involved in chronic myeloid leukemia cell erythroid differentiation and the associated mechanisms, making it a potential therapeutic target in the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia.	3' Untranslated Regions;Antigens, CD/metabolism;Base Sequence;Calcium Channels/genetics/ metabolism;Cell Differentiation;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Down-Regulation;Erythroid Cells/cytology;Fusion Proteins, bcr-abl/metabolism;Humans;K562 Cells;Leukemia, Myelogenous, Chronic, BCR-ABL Positive/metabolism/pathology;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;Oligonucleotides/metabolism;Receptors, Transferrin/metabolism;Sequence Alignment;Transfection
Post-transcriptional regulation of amyloid precursor protein by microRNAs and RNA binding proteins	F. Ruberti, et al.	2010	21331224	Amyloid Precursor Protein (APP) and its proteolytic product amyloid beta (Abeta) are critical in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). APP gene duplication and transcriptional upregulation are linked to AD. In addition, normal levels of APP appear to be required for some physiological functions in the developing brain. Several studies in mammalian cell lines and primary neuron cultures indicate that RNA binding proteins and microRNAs interacting with regulatory regions of the APP mRNA modulate expression of APP post-transcriptionally. However, when the various mechanisms of APP post-transcriptional regulation are recruited and which of them are acting in a synergistic fashion to balance APP protein levels, is unclear. Recent studies suggest that further investigation of the molecules and pathways involved in APP post-transcriptional regulation are warranted.	3'utr;App;Alzheimer disease;Risc;RNA binding proteins;argonaute;hippocampus;microRNA;post-mitotic neurons;post-transcriptional
microRNA-496 - A new, potentially aging-relevant regulator of mTOR	C. Rubie, et al.	2016	27097372	Recent findings strongly support a role for small regulatory RNAs in the regulation of human lifespan yet little information exists about the precise underlying mechanisms. Although extensive studies on model organisms have indicated that reduced activity of the nutrient response pathway, for example as a result of dietary restriction, can extend lifespan through the suppression of the protein kinase mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR), it still is subject of debate whether this mechanism is operative in humans as well. Here, we present findings indicating that human microRNA (miR)-496 targets 2 sites within the human mTOR 3'UTR. Coexpression of miR-496 with different fusion transcripts, consisting of the luciferase transcript and either wild-type mTOR 3'UTR or mTOR 3'UTR transcript with the miR-496 binding sites singly or combined mutated, confirmed this prediction and revealed cooperativity between the 2 binding sites. miR-496 reduced the mTOR protein level in HeLa-K cells, and the levels of miR-496 and mTOR protein were inversely correlated in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells (PBMC), with old individuals (n = 40) harbouring high levels of miR-496 relative to young individuals (n = 40). Together, these findings point to the possibility that miR-496 is involved in the regulation of human aging through the control of mTOR.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ genetics;Base Sequence;Blood Donors;Down-Regulation/genetics;Female;HeLa Cells;Healthy Volunteers;Humans;Leukocytes, Mononuclear/metabolism;Luciferases/metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Multiprotein Complexes/metabolism;Mutagenesis, Site-Directed;Phosphorylation;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Ribosomal Protein S6 Kinases, 70-kDa/metabolism;Signal Transduction/genetics;TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases/genetics/ metabolism;Young Adult;Human aging;Pbmc;gene regulation;mTOR;microRNA
Irinotecan induces senescence and apoptosis in colonic cells in vitro	E. Rudolf, et al.	2012	22898888	Irinotecan (CPT-11) is topoisomerase I inhibitor used in the treatment of disseminated colorectal cancer. In colon cancer cells it induces DNA damage which leads to cytotoxicity with ensuing apoptosis or premature senescence. Despite its clinical use and efficiency in malignant colonocytes, its effects in normal colonic cells are relatively underexplored. In this work we report that CPT-11 induces dose-dependent cytotoxicity which results in apoptosis and premature senescence whose occurrence nevertheless varies in relation to the type of exposed cells. In normal colonic epithelial cells (NCM) the prevailing type of response is apoptosis whereas in normal colonic fibroblasts (NCF) it is premature senescence. Further analyses showed that CPT-11 induced in both types of cells DNA damage and activated stress response pathways including p53 and p16 but with varying activity of stress kinase p38 and selected stress-associated microRNAs. Epithelial cells upregulated the expression of p53, which was subsequently specifically phosphorylated, massively activated p38 and initiated mitochondrial, caspase-dependent apoptosis. These events occurred in the presence of moderately increased expression of miR-34a only. Conversely, in colonic fibroblasts p38 was only moderately activated, p53 as well as p16 expressions were upregulated in the presence of increased expression of miR-34a, miR-128a and miR-449a. Caspase-dependent apoptosis was found only in a minority of treated cells and the premature senescence phenotype was prevailing. Specific inhibition further proved that p53-dependent as well as independent mechanisms might be responsible for these cell type-specific differences.	Antineoplastic Agents, Phytogenic/ pharmacology;Apoptosis/ drug effects;Camptothecin/ analogs & derivatives/pharmacology;Carcinoma/genetics/ metabolism;Cell Aging/drug effects;Colon/ cytology;Colorectal Neoplasms;DNA Damage;Fibroblasts/ drug effects;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;Gene Knockdown Techniques;HCT116 Cells;Humans;Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases/genetics/metabolism;Neoplasm Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/metabolism
TNF-alpha and Beyond: Rapid Mitochondrial Dysfunction Mediates TNF-alpha-Induced Neurotoxicity	A. E. Russell, et al.	2016	28652929	This short communication describes our research which demonstrates that TNF-alpha causes a rapid decline in mitochondrial function, leading to neuronal cell death. As such, this neurotoxic proinflammatory cytokine may play a role in brain damage from stroke and neurodegeneration in chronic conditions such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease. We have extended this initial observation by demonstrating that TNF-alpha stimulates a microRNA (miR-34a) which we have shown reduces five key proteins in the mitochondrial electron transport chain through base-pair complementarity. miR-34a is increased in affected brain regions of Alzheimer's patients and transgenic AD mouse models. We have further shown that oligomeric amyloid beta 42 (oAbeta42) stimulates miR-34a. Collectively, these data suggest that TNF-alpha, oAbeta42, and miR-34a participate in a vicious cycle, resulting in mitochondrial dysfunction, which is critical to the neuropathology of AD.	Alzheimer's disease;Electron transport proteins;Mitochondria;Oligomeric Abeta;Stroke;TNF-alpha;microRNA-34a
Striated muscle activator of Rho signalling (STARS) is reduced in ageing human skeletal muscle and targeted by miR-628-5p	A. P. Russell, et al.	2017	27739650	AIM: The striated muscle activator of Rho signalling (STARS) is a muscle-specific actin-binding protein. The STARS signalling pathway is activated by resistance exercise and is anticipated to play a role in signal mechanotransduction. Animal studies have reported a negative regulation of STARS signalling with age, but such regulation has not been investigated in humans. METHODS: Ten young (18-30 years) and 10 older (60-75 years) subjects completed an acute bout of resistance exercise. Gene and protein expression of members of the STARS signalling pathway and miRNA expression of a subset of miRNAs, predicted or known to target members of STARS signalling pathway, were measured in muscle biopsies collected pre-exercise and 2 h post-exercise. RESULTS: For the first time, we report a significant downregulation of the STARS protein in older subjects. However, there was no effect of age on the magnitude of STARS activation in response to an acute bout of exercise. Finally, we established that miR-628-5p, a miRNA regulated by age and exercise, binds to the STARS 3'UTR to directly downregulate its transcription. CONCLUSION: This study describes for the first time the resistance exercise-induced regulation of STARS signalling in skeletal muscle from older humans and identifies a new miRNA involved in the transcriptional control of STARS.	ageing;exercise;microRNA;skeletal muscle;striated muscle activator of Rho signalling
Time-dependent changes in gene expression induced by secreted amyloid precursor protein-alpha in the rat hippocampus	M. M. Ryan, et al.	2013	23742273	BACKGROUND: Differential processing of the amyloid precursor protein liberates either amyloid-ss, a causative agent of Alzheimer's disease, or secreted amyloid precursor protein-alpha (sAPPalpha), which promotes neuroprotection, neurotrophism, neurogenesis and synaptic plasticity. The underlying molecular mechanisms recruited by sAPPalpha that underpin these considerable cellular effects are not well elucidated. As these effects are enduring, we hypothesised that regulation of gene expression may be of importance and examined temporally specific gene networks and pathways induced by sAPPalpha in rat hippocampal organotypic slice cultures. Slices were exposed to 1 nM sAPPalpha or phosphate buffered saline for 15 min, 2 h or 24 h and sAPPalpha-associated gene expression profiles were produced for each time-point using Affymetrix Rat Gene 1.0 ST arrays (moderated t-test using Limma: p < 0.05, and fold change +/- 1.15). RESULTS: Treatment of organotypic hippocampal slice cultures with 1 nM sAPPalpha induced temporally distinct gene expression profiles, including mRNA and microRNA associated with Alzheimer's disease. Having demonstrated that treatment with human recombinant sAPPalpha was protective against N-methyl d-aspartate-induced toxicity, we next explored the sAPPalpha-induced gene expression profiles. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis predicted that short-term exposure to sAPPalpha elicited a multi-level transcriptional response, including upregulation of immediate early gene transcription factors (AP-1, Egr1), modulation of the chromatin environment, and apparent activation of the constitutive transcription factors CREB and NF-kappaB. Importantly, dynamic regulation of NF-kappaB appears to be integral to the transcriptional response across all time-points. In contrast, medium and long exposure to sAPPalpha resulted in an overall downregulation of gene expression. While these results suggest commonality between sAPPalpha and our previously reported analysis of plasticity-related gene expression, we found little crossover between these datasets. The gene networks formed following medium and long exposure to sAPPalpha were associated with inflammatory response, apoptosis, neurogenesis and cell survival; functions likely to be the basis of the neuroprotective effects of sAPPalpha. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that sAPPalpha rapidly and persistently regulates gene expression in rat hippocampus. This regulation is multi-level, temporally specific and is likely to underpin the neuroprotective effects of sAPPalpha.	Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/ pharmacology;Animals;Apoptosis/drug effects;Cell Survival/drug effects;Female;HEK293 Cells;Hippocampus/cytology/ drug effects/ metabolism/pathology;Humans;In Vitro Techniques;Inflammation/genetics/pathology;Male;N-Methylaspartate/toxicity;Neurogenesis/drug effects;Neuroprotective Agents/ pharmacology;Peptide Fragments/ pharmacology;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Time Factors;Transcription, Genetic/drug effects;Transcriptome/ drug effects
Using machine learning and high-throughput RNA sequencing to classify the precursors of small non-coding RNAs	P. Ryvkin, et al.	2014	24145223	Recent advances in high-throughput sequencing allow researchers to examine the transcriptome in more detail than ever before. Using a method known as high-throughput small RNA-sequencing, we can now profile the expression of small regulatory RNAs such as microRNAs and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) with a great deal of sensitivity. However, there are many other types of small RNAs (<50nt) present in the cell, including fragments derived from snoRNAs (small nucleolar RNAs), snRNAs (small nuclear RNAs), scRNAs (small cytoplasmic RNAs), tRNAs (transfer RNAs), and transposon-derived RNAs. Here, we present a user's guide for CoRAL (Classification of RNAs by Analysis of Length), a computational method for discriminating between different classes of RNA using high-throughput small RNA-sequencing data. Not only can CoRAL distinguish between RNA classes with high accuracy, but it also uses features that are relevant to small RNA biogenesis pathways. By doing so, CoRAL can give biologists a glimpse into the characteristics of different RNA processing pathways and how these might differ between tissue types, biological conditions, or even different species. CoRAL is available at http://wanglab.pcbi.upenn.edu/coral/.	Algorithms;Animals;Artificial Intelligence;Base Sequence;Decision Trees;Entropy;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Humans;Inverted Repeat Sequences;Molecular Sequence Data;Nucleic Acid Conformation;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional;RNA, Small Untranslated/ classification/genetics;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Machine learning;MicroRNAs;Non-coding RNAs;RNA-seq;Small RNAs;Small interfering RNAs
A Novel Korean Red Ginseng Compound Gintonin Inhibited Inflammation by MAPK and NF-kappaB Pathways and Recovered the Levels of mir-34a and mir-93 in RAW 264.7 Cells	E. Saba, et al.	2015	26579204	The beneficial health promoting effects of ginseng from vitalizing the body to enhancing long life have been well explored very rapidly in the past few years. Up till now many ginsenosides have been discovered for their marvelous therapeutic effects. However during past three years, a novel ginseng compound has been discovered, called gintonin, that differs from other ginsenosides on the basis of its signal transduction and chemical nature. Gintonin has been widely studied for its anti-Alzheimer's disease activities and other neuropathies. However, its anti-inflammatory activity remained unexplored. In our study we have reported for the first time the anti-inflammatory activity of gintonin on RAW 264.7 cells. We found that gintonin potently suppresses the nitric oxide production without any cytotoxicity at given doses and also efficiently suppressed the levels of proinflammatory cytokines. Moreover, it mediaes its signal transduction via MAPK and NF-kappaB pathways and revives the levels of mir-34a and mir-93. These findings are valuable for the anti-inflammatory effects of this new compound with particular reference to microRNA involvement in the ginseng family.	
A miRNA signature of prion induced neurodegeneration	R. Saba, et al.	2008	18987751	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small, non-coding RNA molecules which are emerging as key regulators of numerous cellular processes. Compelling evidence links miRNAs to the control of neuronal development and differentiation, however, little is known about their role in neurodegeneration. We used microarrays and RT-PCR to profile miRNA expression changes in the brains of mice infected with mouse-adapted scrapie. We determined 15 miRNAs were de-regulated during the disease processes; miR-342-3p, miR-320, let-7b, miR-328, miR-128, miR-139-5p and miR-146a were over 2.5 fold up-regulated and miR-338-3p and miR-337-3p over 2.5 fold down-regulated. Only one of these miRNAs, miR-128, has previously been shown to be de-regulated in neurodegenerative disease. De-regulation of a unique subset of miRNAs suggests a conserved, disease-specific pattern of differentially expressed miRNAs is associated with prion-induced neurodegeneration. Computational analysis predicted numerous potential gene targets of these miRNAs, including 119 genes previously determined to be also de-regulated in mouse scrapie. We used a co-ordinated approach to integrate miRNA and mRNA profiling, bioinformatic predictions and biochemical validation to determine miRNA regulated processes and genes potentially involved in disease progression. In particular, a correlation between miRNA expression and putative gene targets involved in intracellular protein-degradation pathways and signaling pathways related to cell death, synapse function and neurogenesis was identified.	Animals;Brain Chemistry;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Regulatory Networks;Genes, Reporter;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Nerve Degeneration/ genetics;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Promoter Regions, Genetic/genetics;Scrapie/ genetics/metabolism
MicroRNA 146a (miR-146a) is over-expressed during prion disease and modulates the innate immune response and the microglial activation state	R. Saba, et al.	2012	22363497	Increasing evidence supports the involvement of microRNAs (miRNAs) in inflammatory and immune processes in prion neuropathogenesis. MiRNAs are small, non-coding RNA molecules which are emerging as key regulators of numerous cellular processes. We established miR-146a over-expression in prion-infected mouse brain tissues concurrent with the onset of prion deposition and appearance of activated microglia. Expression profiling of a variety of central nervous system derived cell-lines revealed that miR-146a is preferentially expressed in cells of microglial lineage. Prominent up-regulation of miR-146a was evident in the microglial cell lines BV-2 following TLR2 or TLR4 activation and also EOC 13.31 via TLR2 that reached a maximum 24-48 hours post-stimulation, concomitant with the return to basal levels of transcription of induced cytokines. Gain- and loss-of-function studies with miR-146a revealed a substantial deregulation of inflammatory response pathways in response to TLR2 stimulation. Significant transcriptional alterations in response to miR-146a perturbation included downstream mediators of the pro-inflammatory transcription factor, nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-kappaB) and the JAK-STAT signaling pathway. Microarray analysis also predicts a role for miR-146a regulation of morphological changes in microglial activation states as well as phagocytic mediators of the oxidative burst such as CYBA and NOS3. Based on our results, we propose a role for miR-146a as a potent modulator of microglial function by regulating the activation state during prion induced neurodegeneration.	Animals;Brain/drug effects/metabolism/pathology;Cell Line;Cell Movement/drug effects;Cluster Analysis;Cytokines/pharmacology;Gene Expression Profiling;Immunity, Innate/drug effects/ genetics;Inflammation Mediators/metabolism;Kinetics;Lipopolysaccharides/pharmacology;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Microglia/drug effects/ immunology;Oxidative Phosphorylation/drug effects;Prion Diseases/ genetics/ immunology;Prions/metabolism;Protein Biosynthesis/drug effects;Signal Transduction/drug effects;Time Factors;Toll-Like Receptor 2/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/metabolism;Toll-Like Receptor 4/antagonists & inhibitors/metabolism;Transcription, Genetic/drug effects;Up-Regulation/drug effects/genetics
A functional SNP catalog of overlapping miRNA-binding sites in genes implicated in prion disease and other neurodegenerative disorders	R. Saba, et al.	2014	25074322	The involvement of SNPs in miRNA target sites remains poorly investigated in neurodegenerative disease. In addition to associations with disease risk, such genetic variations can also provide novel insight into mechanistic pathways that may be responsible for disease etiology and/or pathobiology. To identify SNPs associated specifically with degenerating neurons, we restricted our analysis to genes that are dysregulated in CA1 hippocampal neurons of mice during early, preclinical phase of Prion disease. The 125 genes chosen are also implicated in other numerous degenerative and neurological diseases and disorders and are therefore likely to be of fundamental importance. We predicted those SNPs that could increase, decrease, or have neutral effects on miRNA binding. This group of genes was more likely to possess DNA variants than were genes chosen at random. Furthermore, many of the SNPs are common within the human population, and could contribute to the growing awareness that miRNAs and associated SNPs could account for detrimental neurological states. Interestingly, SNPs that overlapped miRNA-binding sites in the 3'-UTR of GABA-receptor subunit coding genes were particularly enriched. Moreover, we demonstrated that SNP rs9291296 would strengthen miR-26a-5p binding to a highly conserved site in the 3'-UTR of gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor subunit alpha-4.	3' Untranslated Regions;Animals;Binding Sites/ genetics;CA1 Region, Hippocampal/metabolism;Computer Simulation;Databases, Nucleic Acid;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs;Neurodegenerative Diseases/ genetics;Neurons/metabolism;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Prion Diseases/ genetics;Receptors, GABA/genetics;3'-utr;Cns;GABA-receptors;Prion disease;SNPs;miRNAs;neurodegeneration
Exosomes as Mediators of the Systemic Adaptations to Endurance Exercise	A. Safdar and M. A. Tarnopolsky	2017	28490541	Habitual endurance exercise training is associated with multisystemic metabolic adaptations that lower the risk of inactivity-associated disorders such as obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Identification of complex systemic signaling networks responsible for these benefits are of great interest because of their therapeutic potential in metabolic diseases; however, specific signals that modulate the multisystemic benefits of exercise in multiple tissues and organs are only recently being discovered. Accumulated evidence suggests that muscle and other tissues have an endocrine function and release peptides and nucleic acids into the circulation in response to acute endurance exercise to mediate the multisystemic adaptations. Factors released from skeletal muscle have been termed myokines and we propose that the total of all factors released in response to endurance exercise (including peptides, nucleic acids, and metabolites) be termed, "exerkines." We propose that many of the exerkines are released within extracellular vesicles called exosomes, which regulate peripheral organ cross talk. Exosomes (30-140 nm) and larger microvesicles [MVs] (100-1000 nm) are subcategories of extracellular vesicles that are released into the circulation. Exosomes contain peptides and several nucleic acids (microRNA [miRNA], messenger RNA [mRNA], mitochondrial DNA [mtDNA]) and are involved in intercellular/tissue exchange of their contents. An acute bout of endurance exercise increases circulating exosomes that are hypothesized to mediate organ cross talk to promote systemic adaptation to endurance exercise. Further support for the role of exosomes (and possibly MVs) in mediating the systemic benefits of exercise comes from the fact that the majority of the previously reported myokines/exerkines are found in extracellular vesicles databases (Vesiclepedia and ExoCarta). We propose that exosomes isolated from athletes following exercise or exosomes bioengineered to incorporate one or many of known exerkines will be therapeutically useful in the treatment of obesity, T2DM, and other aging-associated metabolic disorders.	
MicroRNA machinery in Parkinson's disease: a platform for neurodegenerative diseases	A. Saghazadeh and N. Rezaei	2015	26574782	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are noncoding RNAs that recognize their protein-coding target genes and whereby subjugate them after transcription. Despite the infancy of this field of science, the role of miRNAs in neurodegeneration is well-acknowledged. This review was conducted to indicate that Parkinson's disease (PD) is not excluded from this rule. To this end, we evaluated the existing literature and arranged PD-associated miRNAs according to their mechanism of action, particularly apoptosis, autophagy, inflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress. According to this arrangement, a majority of PD-associated miRNAs were indicated to influence autophagic/apoptotic pathways. We also categorized PD-associated miRNAs according to that they could exert detrimental or beneficial or both into three sets, activator, inhibitor, and double-edged, correspondingly. Considering this criterion, a majority of PD-associated miRNAs were included in the activator category. In addition, evidences from genetic association studies investigating genetic variants of or related to miRNAs in PD patients are presented. Finally, possible applications of the miRNA machinery in PD, including mechanistic networks, diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic potentials, are discussed. But there may be additional miRNAs involved in the pathogenesis of PD which have hitherto remained unknown and thus further studies are needed to explore the issue and to extend this platform.	Parkinson's disease;apoptosis;autophagy;inflammation;microRNAs;neurodegenerative diseases;oxidative stress
Interferon controls SUMO availability via the Lin28 and let-7 axis to impede virus replication	U. Sahin, et al.	2014	24942926	Small ubiquitin-related modifier (SUMO) protein conjugation onto target proteins regulates multiple cellular functions, including defence against pathogens, stemness and senescence. SUMO1 peptides are limiting in quantity and are thus mainly conjugated to high-affinity targets. Conjugation of SUMO2/3 paralogues is primarily stress inducible and may initiate target degradation. Here we demonstrate that the expression of SUMO1/2/3 is dramatically enhanced by interferons through an miRNA-based mechanism involving the Lin28/let-7 axis, a master regulator of stemness. Normal haematopoietic progenitors indeed display much higher SUMO contents than their differentiated progeny. Critically, SUMOs contribute to the antiviral effects of interferons against HSV1 or HIV. Promyelocytic leukemia (PML) nuclear bodies are interferon-induced domains, which facilitate sumoylation of a subset of targets. Our findings thus identify an integrated interferon-responsive PML/SUMO pathway that impedes viral replication by enhancing SUMO conjugation and possibly also modifying the repertoire of targets. Interferon-enhanced post-translational modifications may be essential for senescence or stem cell self-renewal, and initiate SUMO-dependent proteolysis.	HIV Infections/genetics/immunology/virology;HIV-1/genetics/ physiology;Herpes Simplex/genetics/immunology/virology;Herpesvirus 1, Human/genetics/ physiology;Humans;Interferons/immunology;MicroRNAs/genetics/ immunology;RNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/ immunology;SUMO-1 Protein/genetics/ immunology;Small Ubiquitin-Related Modifier Proteins/genetics/ immunology;Ubiquitins/genetics/ immunology;Virus Replication
Conversion of Helicobacter pylori CagA from senescence inducer to oncogenic driver through polarity-dependent regulation of p21	Y. Saito, et al.	2010	20855497	The Helicobacter pylori CagA bacterial oncoprotein plays a critical role in gastric carcinogenesis. Upon delivery into epithelial cells, CagA causes loss of polarity and activates aberrant Erk signaling. We show that CagA-induced Erk activation results in senescence and mitogenesis in nonpolarized and polarized epithelial cells, respectively. In nonpolarized epithelial cells, Erk activation results in oncogenic stress, up-regulation of the p21(Waf1/Cip1) cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, and induction of senescence. In polarized epithelial cells, CagA-driven Erk signals prevent p21(Waf1/Cip1) expression by activating a guanine nucleotide exchange factor-H1-RhoA-RhoA-associated kinase-c-Myc pathway. The microRNAs miR-17 and miR-20a, induced by c-Myc, are needed to suppress p21(Waf1/Cip1) expression. CagA also drives an epithelial-mesenchymal transition in polarized epithelial cells. These findings suggest that CagA exploits a polarity-signaling pathway to induce oncogenesis.	Animals;Antigens, Bacterial/biosynthesis/ genetics;Bacterial Proteins/biosynthesis/ genetics;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Line;Cell Polarity/ genetics;Cell Transformation, Neoplastic/genetics;Cercopithecus aethiops;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/antagonists &;inhibitors/genetics/metabolism;Dogs;Epithelial Cells/metabolism/microbiology/pathology;Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition/genetics;Genes, myc;Helicobacter Infections/metabolism/microbiology/pathology;Helicobacter pylori/ genetics;MicroRNAs;Signal Transduction/genetics;Up-Regulation
MicroRNAs in cancers and neurodegenerative disorders	Y. Saito and H. Saito	2012	23056009	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs which function as endogenous silencers of various target genes. miRNAs are expressed in a tissue-specific manner and playing important roles in cell proliferation, apoptosis, and differentiation during mammalian development. Links between miRNAs and the initiation and progression of human diseases including cancer are becoming increasingly apparent. Recent studies have revealed that some miRNAs such as miR-9, miR-29 family, and miR-34 family are differentially expressed in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and Huntington's disease. These miRNAs are also reported to act as tumor suppressors during human carcinogenesis. In this review, we discuss about miRNAs which are important in the molecular pathogenesis of both cancer and neurodegeneration. Cancer and neurodegenerative disorder may be influenced by common miRNA pathways that regulate differentiation, proliferation, and death of cells.	cancer;miR-29a/29b-1;miR-34b/34c;miR-9;microRNA;neurodegenerative disorder
Reduced expression of hsa-miR-27a-3p in CSF of patients with Alzheimer disease	C. Sala Frigerio, et al.	2013	24212398	OBJECTIVE: We evaluated microRNAs (miRNAs) as potential biomarkers for Alzheimer disease (AD) by analyzing the expression level of miRNAs in CSF of patients with AD dementia and nonaffected control subjects. METHODS: Using quantitative PCR, we profiled the expression level of 728 miRNAs in CSF of nonaffected control subjects and patients with clinically ascertained AD dementia, and we further compared the expression level of candidate miRNAs in 37 control subjects and 35 patients with AD dementia. RESULTS: The level of hsa-miR-27a-3p in CSF is reduced in patients with dementia due to AD in 2 different cohorts of subjects (cohort 1: p = 0.008; cohort 2: p = 0.015; 2-tailed unpaired Welch t test). Moreover, low levels of hsa-miR-27a-3p were accompanied by high CSF tau levels and low CSF beta-amyloid levels. CONCLUSIONS: Our pilot study highlights hsa-miR-27a-3p as a candidate biomarker for AD and provides the groundwork for further confirmation studies in larger cohorts and in other hospitals.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ cerebrospinal fluid/diagnosis/metabolism;Biomarkers/cerebrospinal fluid;Cohort Studies;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ antagonists & inhibitors/biosynthesis/ cerebrospinal fluid;Middle Aged;Pilot Projects
The New Zealand black mouse as a model for the development and progression of chronic lymphocytic leukemia	E. Salerno, et al.	2010	20839343	BACKGROUND: Similar to a subset of human patients who progress from monoclonal B lymphocytosis (MBL) to chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL), New Zealand Black (NZB) mice have an age-associated progression to CLL. The murine disease is linked to a genetic abnormality in microRNA mir-15a/16-1 locus, resulting in decreased mature miR-15a/16. METHODS: Spleens of aging NZB were analyzed for the presence of B-1 cells via flow cytometry and for the presence of a side population (SP) via the ability of cells to exclude Hoechst 33342 dye. The SP was assayed for the presence of hyperdiploid B-1 clones and for the ability to differentiate into B-1 cells in vitro and transfer disease in vivo. In addition, enhanced apoptosis of chemoresistant NZB B-1 cells was examined by restoring miR-16 levels in nutlin-treated cells. RESULTS: Aging NZB mice develop a B-1 expansion and clonal development that evolves from MBL into CLL. An expansion in SP is also seen. Although the SP did contain increased cells with stem cell markers, they lacked malignant B-1 cells and did not transfer disease in vivo. Similar to B-1 cells, splenic NZB SP also has decreased miR-15a/16 when compared with C57Bl/6. Exogenous addition of miR-15a/16 to NZB B-1 cells resulted in increased sensitivity to nutlin. CONCLUSION: NZB serve as an excellent model for studying the development and progression of age-associated CLL. NZB SP cells do not seem to contain cancer stem cells, but rather the B-1 stem cell. NZB B-1 chemoresistance may be related to reduced miR-15a/16 expression.	Age Factors;Animals;Apoptosis/drug effects;Cell Separation;Cell Survival;Disease Models, Animal;Disease Progression;Female;Flow Cytometry;Imidazoles/pharmacology;Immunophenotyping;Leukemia, Lymphocytic, Chronic, B-Cell/immunology/ pathology;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Inbred NZB;Piperazines/pharmacology;Spleen/drug effects/immunology/pathology
DES-ncRNA: A knowledgebase for exploring information about human micro and long noncoding RNAs based on literature-mining	A. Salhi, et al.	2017	28387604	Noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs), particularly microRNAs (miRNAs) and long ncRNAs (lncRNAs), are important players in diseases and emerge as novel drug targets. Thus, unraveling the relationships between ncRNAs and other biomedical entities in cells are critical for better understanding ncRNA roles that may eventually help develop their use in medicine. To support ncRNA research and facilitate retrieval of relevant information regarding miRNAs and lncRNAs from the plethora of published ncRNA-related research, we developed DES-ncRNA ( www.cbrc.kaust.edu.sa/des_ncrna ). DES-ncRNA is a knowledgebase containing text- and data-mined information from public scientific literature and other public resources. Exploration of mined information is enabled through terms and pairs of terms from 19 topic-specific dictionaries including, for example, antibiotics, toxins, drugs, enzymes, mutations, pathways, human genes and proteins, drug indications and side effects, mutations, diseases, etc. DES-ncRNA contains approximately 878,000 associations of terms from these dictionaries of which 36,222 (5,373) are with regards to miRNAs (lncRNAs). We provide several ways to explore information regarding ncRNAs to users including controlled generation of association networks as well as hypotheses generation. We show an example how DES-ncRNA can aid research on Alzheimer disease and suggest potential therapeutic role for Fasudil. DES-ncRNA is a powerful tool that can be used on its own or as a complement to the existing resources, to support research in human ncRNA. To our knowledge, this is the only knowledgebase dedicated to human miRNAs and lncRNAs derived primarily through literature-mining enabling exploration of a broad spectrum of associated biomedical entities, not paralleled by any other resource.	Alzheimer disease;Noncoding RNA;bioinformatics;data-mining;information integration;knowledgebase;literature-mining;long noncoding RNA;microRNA;text-mining
miRNA-214 modulates radiotherapy response of non-small cell lung cancer cells through regulation of p38MAPK, apoptosis and senescence	H. Salim, et al.	2012	22929890	BACKGROUND: Radio- and chemotherapy (RT/CT) resistance hampers success in combating small and non-small cell lung cancers (SCLC/NSCLC). The underlying molecular mechanisms of RT/CT resistance of LCs are multifactorial and have been understood in part hitherto. miRNAs, key regulators of mRNAs, are well-recognised oncomirs; however, their role in regulating RT response remains poorly understood. METHODS: Six human NSCLC and five SCLC cell lines with different SF2 values were investigated. Using microarray we examined whether expression of miRNAs is linked to the RT resistance of NSCLCs or SCLCs. Obtained data were validated by quantitative real-time PCR. Apoptosis and senescence were analysed using siRNA transfection, western blot and flow cytometry. RESULTS: miRNA-21, miRNA-1827, miRNA-214, miRNA-339-5p, miRNA-625, miRNA-768-3p, miRNA-523-3p, miRNA-1227, miRNA-324-5p, miRNA-423-3p, miRNA-1301 and miRNA-1249 are differentially expressed in LC cells. miRNA-214 is upregulated in RT-resistant NSCLC cells relative to radiosensitive counterparts. Considering miRNA-214 as a putative regulator of RT resistance, we demonstrate that knockdown of miRNA-214 in radioresistant NSCLCs sensitised them to RT by stimulation of senescence. Consistently, overexpression of miRNA-214 in radiosensitive NSCLCs protected against RT-induced apoptosis. Protection was mediated by p38MAPK, as downregulation of this kinase could reverse the miRNA-214 overexpression-induced resistance of NSCLC cells. CONCLUSION: miRNA profiling of LC revealed putative RT resistance signalling circuits, which might help in sensitisation of LC to RT.	Apoptosis/ genetics;Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung/ genetics/radiotherapy;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Lung Neoplasms/ genetics/radiotherapy;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Signal Transduction;Small Cell Lung Carcinoma/ genetics/radiotherapy;p38 Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases/genetics
The central nervous system transcriptome of the weakly electric brown ghost knifefish (Apteronotus leptorhynchus): de novo assembly, annotation, and proteomics validation	J. P. Salisbury, et al.	2015	25879418	BACKGROUND: The brown ghost knifefish (Apteronotus leptorhynchus) is a weakly electric teleost fish of particular interest as a versatile model system for a variety of research areas in neuroscience and biology. The comprehensive information available on the neurophysiology and neuroanatomy of this organism has enabled significant advances in such areas as the study of the neural basis of behavior, the development of adult-born neurons in the central nervous system and their involvement in the regeneration of nervous tissue, as well as brain aging and senescence. Despite substantial scientific interest in this species, no genomic resources are currently available. RESULTS: Here, we report the de novo assembly and annotation of the A. leptorhynchus transcriptome. After evaluating several trimming and transcript reconstruction strategies, de novo assembly using Trinity uncovered 42,459 unique contigs containing at least a partial protein-coding sequence based on alignment to a reference set of known Actinopterygii sequences. As many as 11,847 of these contigs contained full or near-full length protein sequences, providing broad coverage of the proteome. A variety of non-coding RNA sequences were also identified and annotated, including conserved long intergenic non-coding RNA and other long non-coding RNA observed previously to be expressed in adult zebrafish (Danio rerio) brain, as well as a variety of miRNA, snRNA, and snoRNA. Shotgun proteomics confirmed translation of open reading frames from over 2,000 transcripts, including alternative splice variants. Assignment of tandem mass spectra was greatly improved by use of the assembly compared to databases of sequences from closely related organisms. The assembly and raw reads have been deposited at DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank under the accession number GBKR00000000. Tandem mass spectrometry data is available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001285. CONCLUSIONS: Presented here is the first release of an annotated de novo transcriptome assembly from Apteronotus leptorhynchus, providing a broad overview of RNA expressed in central nervous system tissue. The assembly, which includes substantial coverage of a wide variety of both protein coding and non-coding transcripts, will allow the development of better tools to understand the mechanisms underlying unique characteristics of the knifefish model system, such as their tremendous regenerative capacity and negligible brain senescence.	Amino Acid Sequence;Animals;Brain/metabolism;Central Nervous System/ metabolism;Chromatography, High Pressure Liquid;Contig Mapping;Fishes/classification/ genetics/metabolism;Genome;Molecular Sequence Data;Proteome/analysis;Proteomics;RNA, Long Noncoding/genetics/metabolism;Sequence Alignment;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Spinal Cord/metabolism;Tandem Mass Spectrometry;Transcriptome
miR-132 loss de-represses ITPKB and aggravates amyloid and TAU pathology in Alzheimer's brain	E. Salta, et al.	2016	27485122	microRNA-132 (miR-132) is involved in prosurvival, anti-inflammatory and memory-promoting functions in the nervous system and has been found consistently downregulated in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Whether and how miR-132 deficiency impacts AD pathology remains, however, unaddressed. We show here that miR-132 loss exacerbates both amyloid and TAU pathology via inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate 3-kinase B (ITPKB) upregulation in an AD mouse model. This leads to increased ERK1/2 and BACE1 activity and elevated TAU phosphorylation. We confirm downregulation of miR-132 and upregulation of ITPKB in three distinct human AD patient cohorts, indicating the pathological relevance of this pathway in AD.	Alzheimer's;Itpkb;Tau;amyloid;microRNA-132
CHO cell culture longevity and recombinant protein yield are enhanced by depletion of miR-7 activity via sponge decoy vectors	N. Sanchez, et al.	2014	24166820	Improving the efficiency of recombinant protein production by CHO cells is highly desirable as more complex proteins (MAbs, fusion proteins, blood/clotting factors, etc.) go into development and come onto the market. Previous reports have shown that microRNA (miRNA)-7 overexpression arrests the growth of CHO cells and that its depletion increases the proliferation of various cell types. In this study we generated stable CHO clones that overexpressed a miR-7-specific decoy transcript (sponge) downstream of a green fluorescent protein reporter gene. The miR-7 sponge efficiently diverted miR-7 away from its endogenous targets as exemplified by the increased expression of CDC7. Although the sponge effectively sequestered miR-7, it also appeared to protect the bound miRNA sequence from degradation in the cell, as exemplified by the apparent increase in mature miR-7 levels without any change in primary transcription. Phenotypically, CHO clones with sequestered miR-7 displayed improved maximum cell density (40%), significantly improved viability and an almost two-fold increase in yield of secreted protein in a fed-batch culture. These findings demonstrate that miRNA sponge transcripts could potentially be used in cell line development projects to generate producer clones that grow to higher densities and last longer in the bioreactor - thereby improving product yield.	Animals;Antibodies, Monoclonal;Bioreactors;CHO Cells;Cell Count;Cell Culture Techniques/methods;Cricetinae;Cricetulus;Genetic Vectors;Longevity/ genetics;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics;Recombinant Proteins/ biosynthesis/metabolism;Biopharmaceutical production;Chinese hamster ovary;Target mediated miRNA protection;miRNA;miRNA sponge
Differential response of miRNA-21 and its targets after traumatic brain injury in aging mice	R. Sandhir, et al.	2014	25277076	The present study investigated the possible role of miR-21, a miRNA that has known prosurvival function, in poor outcomes in the elderly following traumatic brain injury compared to adults. Controlled cortical impact injury was induced in adult (5-6 months) and aged (22-24 months) C57/BL6 mice. miR-21 and four of its targets (PDCD4, TIMP3, RECK, PTEN) were analyzed at 1, 3, 7 days post injury in samples of injured cortex using real-time PCR analysis. Basal miR-21 expression was higher in the aged brain than in the adult brain. In the adult brain, miR-21 expression increased in response to injury, with the maximum increase 24 hours after injury followed by a gradual decrease, returning to baseline 7 days post-injury. In contrast, in aged mice, miR21 showed no injury response, and expression of miR-21 target genes (PTEN, PDCD4, RECK, TIMP3) was up-regulated at all post injury time points, with a maximal increase at 24 hours post injury. Based on these results, we conclude that the diminished miR21 injury response in the aged brain leads to up-regulation of its targets, with the potential to contribute to the poor prognosis following TBI in aging brain. Therefore, strategies aimed at up-regulation of miR-21 and/or down regulation of its targets might be useful in improving outcomes in the elderly following TBI.	Aging/ metabolism;Animals;Brain Injuries/ metabolism;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Aging;Pdcd4;Pten;Reck;Traumatic brain injury;miR-21
Two panels of plasma microRNAs as non-invasive biomarkers for prediction of recurrence in resectable NSCLC	C. Sanfiorenzo, et al.	2013	23342174	The diagnosis of non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) at an early stage, as well as better prediction of outcome remains clinically challenging due to the lack of specific and robust non-invasive markers. The discovery of microRNAs (miRNAs), particularly those found in the bloodstream, has opened up new perspectives for tumor diagnosis and prognosis. The aim of our study was to determine whether expression profiles of specific miRNAs in plasma could accurately discriminate between NSCLC patients and controls, and whether they are able to predict the prognosis of resectable NSCLC patients. We therefore evaluated a series of seventeen NSCLC-related miRNAs by quantitative real-time (qRT)-PCR in plasma from 52 patients with I-IIIA stages NSCLC, 10 patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and 20-age, sex and smoking status-matched healthy individuals. We identified an eleven-plasma miRNA panel that could distinguish NSCLC patients from healthy subjects (AUC = 0.879). A six-plasma miRNA panel was able to discriminate between NSCLC patients and COPD patients (AUC = 0.944). Furthermore, we identified a three-miRNA plasma signature (high miR-155-5p, high miR-223-3p, and low miR-126-3p) that significantly associated with a higher risk for progression in adenocarcinoma patients. In addition, a three-miRNA plasma panel (high miR-20a-5p, low miR-152-3p, and low miR-199a-5p) significantly predicted survival of squamous cell carcinoma patients. In conclusion, we identified two plasma miRNA expression profiles that may be useful for predicting the outcome of patients with resectable NSCLC.	Aged;Carcinoma, Non-Small-Cell Lung/ blood;Female;Humans;Lung Neoplasms/ blood;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood
Changes in hypothalamic expression of the Lin28/let-7 system and related microRNAs during postnatal maturation and after experimental manipulations of puberty	S. Sangiao-Alvarellos, et al.	2013	23291449	Lin28 and Lin28b are related RNA-binding proteins that inhibit the maturation of miRNAs of the let-7 family and participate in the control of cellular stemness and early embryonic development. Considerable interest has arisen recently concerning other physiological roles of the Lin28/let-7 axis, including its potential involvement in the control of puberty, as suggested by genome-wide association studies and functional genomics. We report herein the expression profiles of Lin28 and let-7 members in the rat hypothalamus during postnatal maturation and in selected models of altered puberty. The expression patterns of c-Myc (upstream positive regulator of Lin28), mir-145 (negative regulator of c-Myc), and mir-132 and mir-9 (putative miRNA repressors of Lin28, predicted by bioinformatic algorithms) were also explored. In male and female rats, Lin28, Lin28b, and c-Myc mRNAs displayed very high hypothalamic expression during the neonatal period, markedly decreased during the infantile-to-juvenile transition and reached minimal levels before/around puberty. A similar puberty-related decline was observed for Lin28b in monkey hypothalamus but not in the rat cortex, suggesting species conservation and tissue specificity. Conversely, let-7a, let-7b, mir-132, and mir-145, but not mir-9, showed opposite expression profiles. Perturbation of brain sex differentiation and puberty, by neonatal treatment with estrogen or androgen, altered the expression ratios of Lin28/let-7 at the time of puberty. Changes in the c-Myc/Lin28b/let-7 pathway were also detected in models of delayed puberty linked to early photoperiod manipulation and, to a lesser extent, postnatal underfeeding or chronic subnutrition. Altogether, our data are the first to document dramatic changes in the expression of the Lin28/let-7 axis in the rat hypothalamus during the postnatal maturation and after different manipulations that disturb puberty, thus suggesting the potential involvement of developmental changes in hypothalamic Lin28/let-7 expression in the mechanisms permitting/leading to puberty onset.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Brain/ growth & development;Embryonic Stem Cells/cytology;Female;Hypothalamus/growth & development/metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-myc/biosynthesis;Puberty/drug effects;RNA-Binding Proteins/ biosynthesis;Rats;Rats, Wistar;Tissue Distribution
Perturbation of hypothalamic microRNA expression patterns in male rats after metabolic distress: impact of obesity and conditions of negative energy balance	S. Sangiao-Alvarellos, et al.	2014	24517225	The hypothalamus plays a crucial role in body weight homeostasis through an intricate network of neuronal circuits that are under the precise regulation of peripheral hormones and central transmitters. Although deregulated function of such circuits might be a major contributing factor in obesity, the molecular mechanisms responsible for the hypothalamic control of energy balance remain partially unknown. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been recognized as key regulators of different biological processes, including insulin sensitivity and glucose metabolism. However, the roles of miRNA pathways in the control of metabolism have been mostly addressed in peripheral tissues, whereas the potential deregulation of miRNA expression in the hypothalamus in conditions of metabolic distress remains as yet unexplored. In this work, we used high-throughput screening to define to what extent the hypothalamic profiles of miRNA expression are perturbed in two extreme conditions of nutritional stress in male rats, namely chronic caloric restriction and high-fat diet-induced obesity. Our analyses allowed the identification of sets of miRNAs, including let-7a, mir-9*, mir-30e, mir-132, mir-145, mir-200a, and mir-218, whose expression patterns in the hypothalamus were jointly altered by caloric restriction and/or a high-fat diet. The predicted targets of these miRNAs include several elements of key inflammatory and metabolic pathways, including insulin and leptin. Our study is the first to disclose the impact of nutritional challenges on the hypothalamic miRNA expression profiles. These data will help to characterize the molecular miRNA signature of the hypothalamus in extreme metabolic conditions and pave the way for targeted mechanistic analyses of the involvement of deregulated central miRNAs pathways in the pathogenesis of obesity and related disorders.	Aging;Animals;Appetite Depressants/therapeutic use;Body Composition;Caloric Restriction/adverse effects;Computational Biology;Diet, High-Fat/adverse effects;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/drug effects;Hypothalamus/drug effects/ metabolism;Leptin/blood/therapeutic use;Male;Malnutrition/blood/etiology/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Models, Biological;Neurons/drug effects/ metabolism;Obesity/blood/drug therapy/etiology/ metabolism;Rats;Rats, Wistar;Weaning
Dysregulation of microRNA-219 promotes neurodegeneration through post-transcriptional regulation of tau	I. Santa-Maria, et al.	2015	25574843	Tau is a highly abundant and multifunctional brain protein that accumulates in neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), most commonly in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and primary age-related tauopathy. Recently, microRNAs (miRNAs) have been linked to neurodegeneration; however, it is not clear whether miRNA dysregulation contributes to tau neurotoxicity. Here, we determined that the highly conserved brain miRNA miR-219 is downregulated in brain tissue taken at autopsy from patients with AD and from those with severe primary age-related tauopathy. In a Drosophila model that produces human tau, reduction of miR-219 exacerbated tau toxicity, while overexpression of miR-219 partially abrogated toxic effects. Moreover, we observed a bidirectional modulation of tau levels in the Drosophila model that was dependent on miR-219 expression or neutralization, demonstrating that miR-219 regulates tau in vivo. In mammalian cellular models, we found that miR-219 binds directly to the 3'-UTR of the tau mRNA and represses tau synthesis at the post-transcriptional level. Together, our data indicate that silencing of tau by miR-219 is an ancient regulatory mechanism that may become perturbed during neurofibrillary degeneration and suggest that this regulatory pathway may be useful for developing therapeutics for tauopathies.	3' Untranslated Regions;Alzheimer Disease/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Animals;Disease Models, Animal;Drosophila melanogaster;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Protein Biosynthesis;tau Proteins/ biosynthesis/genetics
[Biomarkers in tumor pathology]	R. Santiago and C. Agueras	2011	23350336	The process of malignant transformation requires the accumulation of multiple genetic alterations, a process which is usually years, where hundreds of genes may be involved. This enormous complexity is best understood through the work of Hanahan and Weinberg, which suggested that the most important functional impairment of various biochemical pathways (senescence, apoptosis, cell signaling and growth autonomy, ...), where many genes can be involved. All molecular advances are translated in the study of biomarkers. These factors, which range from genetic alterations, proteins, microRNAs, ... are basic to the study of neoplastic disease in all its phases. From risk assessment to have a certain type of tumor, with more than 30 genes already known to be inherited mutated and increase the likelihood of developing tumors (colon, breast, thyroid, ..), factors that can serve for serological screening of early tumors and especially also to outline more specific treatments. Continually new factors / biomarkers are being discovered, that may be therapeutic targets or associated with prognosis or resistance to certain treatments. The combination of specific treatments for each patient, in a stratified manner according to the molecular alterations, is assuming a very significant advance in the survival of some tumor types and has opened a great hope for the future of Oncology.	Biomarkers/analysis;Humans;Neoplasms/genetics/metabolism/therapy
Plasma exosome microRNA profiling unravels a new potential modulator of adiponectin pathway in diabetes: effect of glycemic control	D. Santovito, et al.	2014	24937531	CONTEXT: Type 2 diabetes is a chronic disease characterized by inadequate beta-cell response to the progressive insulin resistance. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short, endogenous, noncoding RNAs representing a class of powerful gene expression modulators. Previous population studies observed a modulation of circulating miRNAs in diabetic patients; however, few data are presently available on miRNA modulation in diabetic patients naive to pharmacological treatment as well as the effect of glycemic control on this. OBJECTIVE: We aimed at studying circulating miRNA expression in diabetic patients naive to treatment and at investigating the influence on this of glycemic control. DESIGN: This was a case-control study. PARTICIPANTS: Eighteen treatment-naive diabetic patients with poor metabolic control and 12 control patients participated in the study. MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Wide miRNA expression profiling was performed, and the expression of miRNAs found to be dysregulated was then validated by quantitative RT-PCR. Finally, algorithm-identified putative miRNA targets were evaluated by quantitative RT-PCR and ELISA. RESULTS: In diabetic patients, microarray analysis showed that four miRNAs are increased, whereas 21 miRNAs are decreased. Quantitative RT-PCR validation confirmed the significant up-regulation of miR-326 (P = .004) and down-regulation of let-7a (P < .001) and let-7f (P = .003). Notably, an inverse negative correlation was found between circulating miR-326 and its putative target adiponectin (p = -0.479, P = .009). After 12 months of antidiabetic treatment, quantitative RT-PCR data analysis showed that miR-326 levels were unaffected, whereas the levels of let-7a and let-7f were significantly increased. CONCLUSIONS: Treatment-naive, poorly controlled diabetic patients show a significant dysregulation of miRNAs involved in the regulation of the adiponectin pathway, a phenomenon that may be reversed, at least in part, by improved glycemic control.	Adiponectin/genetics/ metabolism;Aged;Case-Control Studies;Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2/drug therapy/ genetics/metabolism;Exosomes/ genetics;Female;Humans;Hyperglycemia/drug therapy/ genetics/metabolism;Hypoglycemic Agents/therapeutic use;Insulin Resistance/genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/genetics;Middle Aged;Transcriptome
Overexpression of microRNA-145 in atherosclerotic plaques from hypertensive patients	D. Santovito, et al.	2013	23339529	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous, non-coding, short, single-stranded RNAs and represent a new class of gene regulators. Recent evidence supports a role for miRNAs in cardiovascular pathophysiology and atherosclerosis development. We have previously demonstrated that miR-145 is widely expressed in human atherosclerotic lesions and its downregulation has been correlated with vascular smooth muscle cell dedifferentiation, a cardinal step in the development of atherosclerosis. However, no evidences are available at this time about modulation of miR-145 in the setting of hypertension. Thus, the aim of this study was to investigate the expression of miR-145 in complicated hypertension. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Atherosclerotic plaques were obtained from 22 patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy for high-grade internal carotid artery stenosis. Plaques were subdivided into hypertension (n = 15) and control (n = 7) groups according to the presence or absence of hypertension (as defined by blood pressure > 140/90 mmHg or current antihypertensive treatment). In study plaques, miR-145 values were evaluated using real-time PCR. The level of induction has been tested by using DeltaDelta cycle threshold method. RESULTS: We found that miR-145 was significantly more expressed in atherosclerotic plaques of hypertensive patients than in control plaques (1.201 +/- 0.260 vs 0.483 +/- 0.148 fold induction +/- SE; p = 0.026). Moreover, a post-hoc analysis showed that treatment with angiotensin receptor blockers may be associated with the maximum increase in miR-145 levels, although these data did not show any statistical significance probably due to the limited sample size. CONCLUSIONS: To the best of our knowledge, this study is the first demonstration that hypertension may upregulate miR-145 expression in human atherosclerotic plaques. Future investigations will be necessary to establish the molecular readout of miR-145 upregulation in atherosclerotic lesions in hypertension.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Female;Humans;Hypertension/ metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Plaque, Atherosclerotic/ metabolism
MicroRNA-124 loaded nanoparticles enhance brain repair in Parkinson's disease	C. Saraiva, et al.	2016	27269730	Modulation of the subventricular zone (SVZ) neurogenic niche can enhance brain repair in several disorders including Parkinson's disease (PD). Herein, we used biocompatible and traceable polymeric nanoparticles (NPs) containing perfluoro-1,5-crown ether (PFCE) and coated with protamine sulfate to complex microRNA-124 (miR-124), a neuronal fate determinant. The ability of NPs to efficiently deliver miR-124 and prompt SVZ neurogenesis and brain repair in PD was evaluated. In vitro, miR-124 NPs were efficiently internalized by neural stem/progenitors cells and neuroblasts and promoted their neuronal commitment and maturation. The expression of Sox9 and Jagged1, two miR-124 targets and stemness-related genes, were also decreased upon miR-124 NP treatment. In vivo, the intracerebral administration of miR-124 NPs increased the number of migrating neuroblasts that reached the granule cell layer of the olfactory bulb, both in healthy and in a 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) mouse model for PD. MiR-124 NPs were also able to induce migration of neurons into the lesioned striatum of 6-OHDA-treated mice. Most importantly, miR-124 NPs proved to ameliorate motor symptoms of 6-OHDA mice, monitored by the apomorphine-induced rotation test. Altogether, we provide clear evidences to support the use of miR-124 NPs as a new therapeutic approach to boost endogenous brain repair mechanisms in a setting of neurodegeneration.	MiR-124;Nanoparticles;Neural stem cells;Neurogenesis;Parkinson's disease
Letter by Sardu et al Regarding Article, "Circulating MicroRNA-30d Is Associated With Response to Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy in Heart Failure and Regulates Cardiomyocyte Apoptosis: A Translational Pilot Study"	C. Sardu, et al.	2016	26858295		Animals;Apoptosis/ physiology;Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy;Female;Heart Failure/ blood;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood;Myocytes, Cardiac/ physiology;Translational Medical Research
Expression of microRNA-34a in Alzheimer's disease brain targets genes linked to synaptic plasticity, energy metabolism, and resting state network activity	S. Sarkar, et al.	2016	27235866	Polygenetic risk factors and reduced expression of many genes in late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) impedes identification of a target(s) for disease-modifying therapies. We identified a single microRNA, miR-34a that is over expressed in specific brain regions of AD patients as well as in the 3xTg-AD mouse model. Specifically, increased miR-34a expression in the temporal cortex region compared to age matched healthy control correlates with severity of AD pathology. miR-34a over expression in patient's tissue and forced expression in primary neuronal culture correlates with concurrent repression of its target genes involved in synaptic plasticity, oxidative phosphorylation and glycolysis. The repression of oxidative phosphorylation and glycolysis related proteins correlates with reduced ATP production and glycolytic capacity, respectively. We also found that miR-34a overexpressed neurons secrete miR-34a containing exosomes that are taken up by neighboring neurons. Furthermore, miR-34a targets dozens of genes whose expressions are known to be correlated with synchronous activity in resting state functional networks. Our analysis of human genomic sequences from the tentative promoter of miR-34a gene shows the presence of NFkappaB, STAT1, c-Fos, CREB and p53 response elements. Together, our results raise the possibilities that pathophysiology-induced activation of specific transcription factor may lead to increased expression of miR-34a gene and miR-34a mediated concurrent repression of its target genes in neural networks may result in dysfunction of synaptic plasticity, energy metabolism, and resting state network activity. Thus, our results provide insights into polygenetic AD mechanisms and disclose miR-34a as a potential therapeutic target for AD.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/ metabolism;Animals;Brain/ metabolism;Energy Metabolism;Female;Glycolysis;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Neuronal Plasticity;Neurons/metabolism;Oxidative Phosphorylation;Primary Cell Culture;Alzheimer's disease;MiR-34a;MicroRNAs;Resting state network;Synaptic plasticity
Molecular events in matrix protein metabolism in the aging kidney	K. Sataranatarajan, et al.	2012	23020145	We explored molecular events associated with aging-induced matrix changes in the kidney. C57BL6 mice were studied in youth, middle age, and old age. Albuminuria and serum cystatin C level (an index of glomerular filtration) increased with aging. Renal hypertrophy was evident in middle-aged and old mice and was associated with glomerulomegaly and increase in mesangial fraction occupied by extracellular matrix. Content of collagen types I and III and fibronectin was increased with aging; increment in their mRNA varied with the phase of aging. The content of ZEB1 and ZEB2, collagen type I transcription inhibitors, and their binding to the collagen type Ialpha2 promoter by ChIP assay also showed age-phase-specific changes. Lack of increase in mRNA and data from polysome assay suggested decreased degradation as a potential mechanism for kidney collagen type I accumulation in the middle-aged mice. These changes occurred with increment in TGFbeta mRNA and protein and activation of its SMAD3 pathway; SMAD3 binding to the collagen type Ialpha2 promoter was also increased. TGFbeta-regulated microRNAs (miRs) exhibited selective regulation. The renal cortical content of miR-21 and miR-200c, but not miR-192, miR-200a, or miR-200b, was increased with aging. Increased miR-21 and miR-200c contents were associated with reduced expression of their targets, Sprouty-1 and ZEB2, respectively. These data show that aging is associated with complex molecular events in the kidney that are already evident in the middle age and progress to old age. Age-phase-specific regulation of matrix protein synthesis occurs and involves matrix protein-specific transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanisms.	Adaptor Proteins, Signal Transducing;Aging/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Animals;Collagen Type I/genetics/metabolism;Collagen Type III/genetics/metabolism;Cystatin C/blood;Extracellular Matrix/ metabolism/pathology;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Glomerular Filtration Rate;Glomerular Mesangium/ metabolism/pathology;Homeodomain Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Humans;Kidney Cortex/ metabolism/pathology;Kruppel-Like Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;Membrane Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics;Phosphoproteins/genetics/metabolism;Promoter Regions, Genetic;Protein Binding;Proteolysis;RNA, Messenger/biosynthesis;Repressor Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Serum Albumin/metabolism;Smad3 Protein/genetics/metabolism;Transforming Growth Factor beta/genetics/metabolism;Zinc Finger E-box-Binding Homeobox 1
miR-195/497 induce postnatal quiescence of skeletal muscle stem cells	T. Sato, et al.	2014	25119651	Skeletal muscle stem cells (MuSCs), the major source for skeletal muscle regeneration in vertebrates, are in a state of cell cycle arrest in adult skeletal muscles. Prior evidence suggests that embryonic muscle progenitors proliferate and differentiate to form myofibres and also self-renew, implying that MuSCs, derived from these cells, acquire quiescence later during development. Depletion of Dicer in adult MuSCs promoted their exit from quiescence, suggesting microRNAs are involved in the maintenance of quiescence. Here we identified miR-195 and miR-497 that induce cell cycle arrest by targeting cell cycle genes, Cdc25 and Ccnd. Reduced expression of MyoD in juvenile MuSCs, as a result of overexpressed miR-195/497 or attenuated Cdc25/Ccnd, revealed an intimate link between quiescence and suppression of myogenesis in MuSCs. Transplantation of cultured MuSCs treated with miR-195/497 contributed more efficiently to regenerating muscles of dystrophin-deficient mice, indicating the potential utility of miR-195/497 for stem cell therapies.	Aging/physiology;Animals;Cell Cycle/physiology;Cell Differentiation/ physiology;Cell Line;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred Strains;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Morphogenesis/physiology;Muscle Development/physiology;Muscle, Skeletal/ cytology/ growth & development/physiology;MyoD Protein/physiology;Stem Cells/ physiology;cdc25 Phosphatases/physiology
Molecular network analysis of human microRNA targetome: from cancers to Alzheimer's disease	J. Satoh	2012	23034144	MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a class of endogenous small noncoding RNAs, mediate posttranscriptional regulation of protein-coding genes by binding chiefly to the 3' untranslated region of target mRNAs, leading to translational inhibition, mRNA destabilization or degradation. A single miRNA concurrently downregulates hundreds of target mRNAs designated "targetome", and thereby fine-tunes gene expression involved in diverse cellular functions, such as development, differentiation, proliferation, apoptosis and metabolism. Recently, we characterized the molecular network of the whole human miRNA targetome by using bioinformatics tools for analyzing molecular interactions on the comprehensive knowledgebase. We found that the miRNA targetome regulated by an individual miRNA generally constitutes the biological network of functionally-associated molecules in human cells, closely linked to pathological events involved in cancers and neurodegenerative diseases. We also identified a collaborative regulation of gene expression by transcription factors and miRNAs in cancer-associated miRNA targetome networks. This review focuses on the workflow of molecular network analysis of miRNA targetome in silico. We applied the workflow to two representative datasets, composed of miRNA expression profiling of adult T cell leukemia (ATL) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), retrieved from Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) repository. The results supported the view that miRNAs act as a central regulator of both oncogenesis and neurodegeneration.	
MicroRNA-Seq Data Analysis Pipeline to Identify Blood Biomarkers for Alzheimer's Disease from Public Data	J. Satoh, et al.	2015	25922570	BACKGROUND: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia with no curative therapy currently available. Establishment of sensitive and non-invasive biomarkers that promote an early diagnosis of AD is crucial for the effective administration of disease-modifying drugs. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) mediate posttranscriptional repression of numerous target genes. Aberrant regulation of miRNA expression is implicated in AD pathogenesis, and circulating miRNAs serve as potential biomarkers for AD. However, data analysis of numerous AD-specific miRNAs derived from small RNA-sequencing (RNA-Seq) is most often laborious. METHODS: To identify circulating miRNA biomarkers for AD, we reanalyzed a publicly available small RNA-Seq dataset, composed of blood samples derived from 48 AD patients and 22 normal control (NC) subjects, by a simple web-based miRNA data analysis pipeline that combines omiRas and DIANA miRPath. RESULTS: By using omiRas, we identified 27 miRNAs expressed differentially between both groups, including upregulation in AD of miR-26b-3p, miR-28-3p, miR-30c-5p, miR-30d-5p, miR-148b-5p, miR-151a-3p, miR-186-5p, miR-425-5p, miR-550a-5p, miR-1468, miR-4781-3p, miR-5001-3p, and miR-6513-3p and downregulation in AD of let-7a-5p, let-7e-5p, let-7f-5p, let-7g-5p, miR-15a-5p, miR-17-3p, miR-29b-3p, miR-98-5p, miR-144-5p, miR-148a-3p, miR-502-3p, miR-660-5p, miR-1294, and miR-3200-3p. DIANA miRPath indicated that miRNA-regulated pathways potentially downregulated in AD are linked with neuronal synaptic functions, while those upregulated in AD are implicated in cell survival and cellular communication. CONCLUSIONS: The simple web-based miRNA data analysis pipeline helps us to effortlessly identify candidates for miRNA biomarkers and pathways of AD from the complex small RNA-Seq data.	Alzheimer's disease;DIANA miRPath;biomarkers;data analysis pipeline;microRNA;omiRas;small RNA-Seq
miRNAs regulate SIRT1 expression during mouse embryonic stem cell differentiation and in adult mouse tissues	L. R. Saunders, et al.	2010	20634564	SIRT1 is increasingly recognized as a critical regulator of stress responses, replicative senescence, inflammation, metabolism, and aging. SIRT1 expression is regulated transcriptionally and post-transcriptionally, and its enzymatic activity is controlled by NAD+ levels and interacting proteins. We found that SIRT1 protein levels were much higher in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) than in differentiated tissues. miRNAs post-transcriptionally downregulated SIRT1 during mESC differentiation and maintained low levels of SIRT1 expression in differentiated tissues. Specifically, miR-181a and b, miR-9, miR-204, miR-199b, and miR-135a suppressed SIRT1 protein expression. Inhibition of mir-9, the SIRT1-targeting miRNA induced earliest during mESC differentiation, prevented SIRT1 downregulation. Conversely, SIRT1 protein levels were upregulated post-transcriptionally during the reprogramming of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) into induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells. The regulation of SIRT1 protein levels by miRNAs might provide new opportunities for therapeutic tissue-specific modulation of SIRT1 expression and for reprogramming of somatic cells into iPS cells.	Animals;Cell Aging/physiology;Cell Differentiation/genetics;Down-Regulation/physiology;Drug Design;Embryonic Stem Cells/physiology;Genomic Instability/physiology;Mice;MicroRNAs/physiology;Organ Specificity;Protein Biosynthesis/ physiology;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional;Sirtuin 1/antagonists & inhibitors/physiology
AKT-ing via microRNA	D. Sayed and M. Abdellatif	2010	20814244	MicroRNAs are involved in almost every aspect of a mammalian cell's functionality, from stem cell differentiation to aging and pathogenesis; however, their role in immediate cell signaling is less defined. This has been recently demonstrated by the rapid increase or decrease of miR-21's abundance within minutes of activation or inhibition of the AKT pathway, respectively, which mediates its regulation of Fas ligand (FasL) and phosphatase and tensin homologue deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN) expression, among other targets. Conversely, AKT induces rapid downregulation of miR-199a-5p to effect upregulation of hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha Hif-1alpha and sirtuin 1 (Sirt1). This suggests that posttranscriptional mechanisms regulate miRNAs' processing and/or stability to induce the rapid fluctuation in their levels. In support, a growing number of studies are showing specific posttranscriptional regulation of miRNAs. The data potentially explain how AKT, and plausibly other signaling pathways, can specifically and promptly modulate a gene's translation while circumventing the need for transcription during transient signaling events. In this article we present our views regarding cell signaling via miRNAs.	Animals;Cell Line, Tumor;Fas Ligand Protein/metabolism;Humans;Hypoxia-Inducible Factor 1, alpha Subunit/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism/physiology;Myocardial Ischemia/metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/ metabolism;Signal Transduction;Sirtuin 1/metabolism;Swine/metabolism
Cerebellar neurodegeneration in the absence of microRNAs	A. Schaefer, et al.	2007	17606634	Genome-encoded microRNAs (miRNAs) are potent regulators of gene expression. The significance of miRNAs in various biological processes has been suggested by studies showing an important role of these small RNAs in regulation of cell differentiation. However, the role of miRNAs in regulation of differentiated cell physiology is not well established. Mature neurons express a large number of distinct miRNAs, but the role of miRNAs in postmitotic neurons has not been examined. Here, we provide evidence for an essential role of miRNAs in survival of differentiated neurons. We show that conditional Purkinje cell-specific ablation of the key miRNA-generating enzyme Dicer leads to Purkinje cell death. Deficiency in Dicer is associated with progressive loss of miRNAs, followed by cerebellar degeneration and development of ataxia. The progressive neurodegeneration in the absence of Dicer raises the possibility of an involvement of miRNAs in neurodegenerative disorders.	Animals;Apoptosis;Cell Differentiation;Cerebellum/ pathology;Disease Models, Animal;Immunohistochemistry;In Situ Nick-End Labeling;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Nerve Degeneration/ pathology;Purkinje Cells/pathology
Changes in the miRNA-mRNA Regulatory Network Precede Motor Symptoms in a Mouse Model of Multiple System Atrophy: Clinical Implications	S. Schafferer, et al.	2016	26962858	Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a fatal rapidly progressive alpha-synucleinopathy, characterized by alpha-synuclein accumulation in oligodendrocytes. It is accepted that the pathological alpha-synuclein accumulation in the brain of MSA patients plays a leading role in the disease process, but little is known about the events in the early stages of the disease. In this study we aimed to define potential roles of the miRNA-mRNA regulatory network in the early pre-motor stages of the disease, i.e., downstream of alpha-synuclein accumulation in oligodendroglia, as assessed in a transgenic mouse model of MSA. We investigated the expression patterns of miRNAs and their mRNA targets in substantia nigra (SN) and striatum, two brain regions that undergo neurodegeneration at a later stage in the MSA model, by microarray and RNA-seq analysis, respectively. Analysis was performed at a time point when alpha-synuclein accumulation was already present in oligodendrocytes at neuropathological examination, but no neuronal loss nor deficits of motor function had yet occurred. Our data provide a first evidence for the leading role of gene dysregulation associated with deficits in immune and inflammatory responses in the very early, non-symptomatic disease stages of MSA. While dysfunctional homeostasis and oxidative stress were prominent in SN in the early stages of MSA, in striatum differential gene expression in the non-symptomatic phase was linked to oligodendroglial dysfunction, disturbed protein handling, lipid metabolism, transmembrane transport and altered cell death control, respectively. A large number of putative miRNA-mRNAs interaction partners were identified in relation to the control of these processes in the MSA model. Our results support the role of early changes in the miRNA-mRNA regulatory network in the pathogenesis of MSA preceding the clinical onset of the disease. The findings thus contribute to understanding the disease process and are likely to pave the way towards identifying disease biomarkers for early diagnosis of MSA.	Animals;Corpus Striatum/ metabolism/pathology;Disease Models, Animal;Humans;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Multiple System Atrophy/genetics/ metabolism;Oligodendroglia/ metabolism/pathology;RNA, Messenger/genetics/ metabolism;alpha-Synuclein/ biosynthesis/genetics
Differential expression of miR-17~92 identifies BCL2 as a therapeutic target in BCR-ABL-positive B-lineage acute lymphoblastic leukemia	M. Scherr, et al.	2014	24280866	Despite advances in allogeneic stem cell transplantation, BCR-ABL-positive acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) remains a high-risk disease, necessitating the development of novel treatment strategies. As the known oncomir, miR-17~92, is regulated by BCR-ABL fusion in chronic myeloid leukaemia, we investigated its role in BCR-ABL translocated ALL. miR-17~92-encoded miRNAs were significantly less abundant in BCR-ABL-positive as compared to -negative ALL-cells and overexpression of miR-17~19b triggered apoptosis in a BCR-ABL-dependent manner. Stable isotope labelling of amino acids in culture (SILAC) followed by liquid chromatography and mass spectroscopy (LC-MS) identified several apoptosis-related proteins including Bcl2 as potential targets of miR-17~19b. We validated Bcl2 as a direct target of this miRNA cluster in mice and humans, and, similar to miR-17~19b overexpression, Bcl2-specific RNAi strongly induced apoptosis in BCR-ABL-positive cells. Furthermore, BCR-ABL-positive human ALL cell lines were more sensitive to pharmacological BCL2 inhibition than negative ones. Finally, in a xenograft model using patient-derived leukaemic blasts, real-time, in vivo imaging confirmed pharmacological inhibition of BCL2 as a new therapeutic strategy in BCR-ABL-positive ALL. These data demonstrate the role of miR-17~92 in regulation of apoptosis, and identify BCL2 as a therapeutic target of particular relevance in BCR-ABL-positive ALL.	Animals;Fusion Proteins, bcr-abl/ genetics;Heterografts;Humans;Leukemia, B-Cell/genetics/ therapy;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Precursor Cell Lymphoblastic Leukemia-Lymphoma/genetics/ therapy;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2/ genetics
MicroRNA expression in Alzheimer blood mononuclear cells	H. M. Schipper, et al.	2007	19936094	Various coding genes representing multiple functional categories are downregulated in blood mononuclear cells (BMC) of patients with sporadic Alzheimer disease (AD). Noncoding microRNAs (miRNA) regulate gene expression by degrading messages or inhibiting translation. Using BMC as a paradigm for the study of systemic alterations in AD, we investigated whether peripheral miRNA expression is altered in this condition. MicroRNA levels were assessed using the microRNA microarray (MMChip) containing 462 human miRNA, and the results validated by real time PCR. Sixteen AD patients and sixteen normal elderly controls (NEC) were matched for ethnicity, age, gender and education. The expression of several BMC miRNAs was found to increase in AD relative to NEC levels, and may differ between AD subjects bearing one or two APOE4 alleles. As compared to NEC, miRNAs significantly upregulated in AD subjects and confirmed by qPCR were miR-34a and 181b. Predicted target genes downregulated in Alzheimer BMC that correlated with the upregulated miRNAs were largely represented in the functional categories of Transcription/Translation and Synaptic Activity. Several miRNAs targeting the same genes were within the functional category of Injury response/Redox homeostasis. Taken together, induction of microRNA expression in BMC may contribute to the aberrant systemic decline in mRNA levels in sporadic AD.	Alzheimer disease;gene expression;microarray;neurodegeneration;noncoding small RNA
Orchestrated increase of dopamine and PARK mRNAs but not miR-133b in dopamine neurons in Parkinson's disease	F. Schlaudraff, et al.	2014	24742361	Progressive loss of substantia nigra dopamine neurons (SN DA) is a hallmark of aging and of Parkinson's disease (PD). Mutations in PARK genes cause familial PD forms. Increased expression of alpha-synuclein (PARK4) is a disease-triggering event in familial PD and also observed in SN DA neurons in sporadic PD but related transcriptional changes are unknown. With optimized single-cell quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis, we compared messenger RNA and microRNA levels in SN DA neurons from sporadic PD patients and controls. Non-optimally matched donor ages and RNA integrities are common problems when analyzing human samples. We dissected the influence of distinct ages and RNA integrities of our samples by applying a specifically-optimized, linear-mixed-effects model to quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction-data. We identified that elevated alpha-synuclein messenger RNA levels in SN DA neurons of human PD brains were positively correlated with corresponding elevated levels of mRNAs for functional compensation of progressive SN DA loss and for enhanced proteasomal (PARK5/UCHL1) and lysosomal (PARK9/ATPase13A2) function, possibly counteracting alpha-synuclein toxicity. In contrast, microRNA miR-133b levels, previously implicated in transcriptional dysregulation in PD, were not altered in SN DA neurons in PD.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/genetics;Dopamine/ metabolism;Dopaminergic Neurons/ metabolism/pathology;Female;Humans;Lewy Body Disease/ genetics;Lysosomes/physiology;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Mutation;Parkinson Disease/ genetics/pathology;Proteasome Endopeptidase Complex/physiology;RNA, Messenger/ metabolism;Substantia Nigra/cytology;alpha-Synuclein/ deficiency/genetics;ATPase13A2;Lrrk2;Mixed-effects-model;Nurr1;Park;Pitx3;Parkin;Rin;Snca140;Uchl-1;Uv-lmd;miR-133b
Deletion of miRNA processing enzyme Dicer in POMC-expressing cells leads to pituitary dysfunction, neurodegeneration and development of obesity	M. Schneeberger, et al.	2012	24199146	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have recently emerged as key regulators of metabolism. However, their potential role in the central regulation of whole-body energy homeostasis is still unknown. In this study we show that the expression of Dicer, an essential endoribonuclease for miRNA maturation, is modulated by nutrient availability and excess in the hypothalamus. Conditional deletion of Dicer in POMC-expressing cells resulted in obesity, characterized by hyperphagia, increased adiposity, hyperleptinemia, defective glucose metabolism and alterations in the pituitary-adrenal axis. The development of the obese phenotype was paralleled by a POMC neuron degenerative process that started around 3 weeks of age. Hypothalamic transcriptomic analysis in presymptomatic POMCDicerKO mice revealed the downregulation of genes implicated in biological pathways associated with classical neurodegenerative disorders, such as MAPK signaling, ubiquitin-proteosome system, autophagy and ribosome biosynthesis. Collectively, our results highlight a key role for miRNAs in POMC neuron survival and the consequent development of neurodegenerative obesity.	3V, third ventricle;ACTH, adrenocorticotropic hormone;AP, adenopituitary;ARC, arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus;AUC, area under the curve;Acp2, acid phosphatase 2, lysosomal;AgRP, agouti-related protein;Ago2, Argonaute 2;CART, cocaine and amphetamine-related transcript;CNS, central nervous system;CRH, corticotropin releasing hormone;Crhr1, corticotrophin releasing hormone receptor 1;Cx, Cortex;DIO, diet-induced obesity;Dicer;Fa, Fascicular zone;GFP, green fluorescent protein;Gapdh, Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase;Gh, growth hormone;Gl, Glomerular zone;Hprt, Hypoxanthine guanine phosphoribosyl transferase;Hypothalamus;IL, intermediate lobe;IP, intraperitoneal;LH, lateral hypothalamus;MC3R, melanocortin receptor 3;MC4R, melanocortin receptor 4;MZ, Marginal Zone;Me, Medula;Myc, myelocytomatosis oncogene;NP, neurohypophysis;NPY, neuropeptide Y;NS, not significant;Naglu, alpha-N-acetylglucosaminidase;Neurodegeneration;Nhlrc1, NHL repeat containing 1;Ntrk2, Neurotrophic tyrosine kinase, receptor, type 2;Obesity;Pomc;POMC, pro-opiomelanocortin;POMCDicerKO, mice lacking Dicer in POMC-expressing cells;PVN, paraventricular nucleus;Park2, Parkin;Pit1, pituitary-specific transcription factor 1;Re, Reticular zone;Rps24, ribosomal protein S24;Rps9, ribosomal protein S9;Tpit, T box transcription factor;Tshbeta, thyroid-stimulating hormone beta chain;UD, undetectable;UPS, ubiquitin proteosome system;UTR, untranslated region;VMH, ventromedial hypothalamus;YFP, yellow fluorescent protein.;miRISC, miRNA-induced silencing complexes;miRNA, microRNA;microRNA;qPCR, quantitative real-time PCR
Changes of Ovarian microRNA Profile in Long-Living Ames Dwarf Mice during Aging	A. Schneider, et al.	2017	28046124	The Ames dwarf (df/df) mice have extended longevity and can preserve the ovarian reserve longer than Normal (N) mice. Based on this, the aim of our study was to evaluate the ovarian microRNA (miRNA) profile in young and aged df/df and N mice. Ovarian tissue was collected at 5-6 months and at 21-22 months of age for miRNA sequencing. We detected a total of 404 miRNAs in the ovarian samples, from which the abundance of 22 and 33 miRNAs changed with age in N and df/df mice, respectively. Of these, only three miRNAs were commonly regulated with age between N and df/df mice, indicating a very divergent miRNA profile between genotypes. We also detected that 46 miRNAs were regulated between N and df/df mice, of which 23 were regulated exclusively in young mice, 12 exclusively in old mice and 12 commonly regulated at young and old ages. Many genes likely to be targeted by these miRNAs are involved in the FoxO, mTOR, PI3k/Akt and insulin signaling pathways. These results suggest that the aging process has a differential impact on the ovarian miRNA profile in df/df mice, and suggest that these miRNAs can be central players in the maintenance of a younger ovarian phenotype.	
Mechanisms of MicroRNAs in Atherosclerosis	A. Schober and C. Weber	2016	27193456	The maladaptation of endothelial cells to disturbed flow at arterial bifurcations increases permeability for lipoproteins. Additional injury by chemically modified lipoproteins disrupts the continuous repair of maladapted endothelial cells and triggers intimal macrophage accumulation. Macrophages remove modified lipoproteins from the extracellular space until the cholesterol overload leads to macrophage death and insufficient efferocytosis. This macrophage failure promotes the progression to advanced lesions by formation of a lipid-rich necrotic core, which may rupture and cause myocardial infarction and stroke. In this article, we summarize the fundamental roles of microRNAs (miRNAs) in the regulation of endothelial maladaptation and macrophage failure during atherosclerosis. We describe how miRNAs coordinate the mutual interaction between chronic endothelial repair and endothelial senescence and mechanistically link the regulation of macrophage cholesterol homeostasis with defective efferocytosis. Lastly, we discuss how miRNAs may challenge and extend current theories about atherosclerosis.	cardiovascular disease;cholesterol;endothelial cell;macrophages;maladaptation;noncoding RNA
Elastic band resistance training influences transforming growth factor-ss receptor I mRNA expression in peripheral mononuclear cells of institutionalised older adults: the Vienna Active Ageing Study (VAAS)	B. Schober-Halper, et al.	2016	27375767	BACKGROUND: Ageing, inactivity and obesity are associated with chronic low-grade inflammation contributing to a variety of lifestyle-related diseases. Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) is a multimodal protein with various cellular functions ranging from tissue remodelling to the regulation of inflammation and immune functions. While it is generally accepted that aerobic exercise exerts beneficial effects on several aspects of immune functions, even in older adults, the effect of resistance training remains unclear. The aim of this study was to investigate whether progressive resistance training (6 months) with or without nutritional supplementation (protein and vitamins) would influence circulating C-reactive protein and TGF-beta levels as well as TGF-beta signalling in peripheral mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of institutionalised adults with a median age of 84.5 (65.0-97.4) years. RESULTS: Elastic band resistance training significantly improved performance as shown by the arm-lifting test (p = 0.007), chair stand test (p = 0.001) and 6-min walking test (p = 0.026). These results were paralleled by a reduction in TGF-beta receptor I (TGF-betaRI) mRNA expression in PBMCs (p = 0.006), while circulating inflammatory markers were unaffected. Protein and vitamin supplementation did not provoke any additional effects. Interestingly, muscular endurance of upper and lower body and aerobic performance at baseline were negatively associated with changes in circulating TGF-beta at the early phase of the study. Furthermore, drop-outs of the study were characterised not only by lower physical performance but also higher TGF-beta and TGF-betaRI mRNA expression, and lower miRNA-21 expression. CONCLUSIONS: Progressive resistance training with elastic bands did not influence chronic low-grade inflammation but potentially affected TGF-beta signalling in PBMCs through altered TGF-betaRI mRNA expression. There appears to be an association between physical performance and TGF-beta expression in PBMCs of older adults, in which the exact mechanisms need to be clarified.	Chronic inflammation;Inflammageing;Strength training;TGF-beta pathway;Vienna Active Ageing Study (VAAS);microRNA
Design of RNAi hairpins for mutation-specific silencing of ataxin-7 and correction of a SCA7 phenotype	J. Scholefield, et al.	2009	19789634	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 7 is a polyglutamine disorder caused by an expanded CAG repeat mutation that results in neurodegeneration. Since no treatment exists for this chronic disease, novel therapies such post-transcriptional RNA interference-based gene silencing are under investigation, in particular those that might enable constitutive and tissue-specific silencing, such as expressed hairpins. Given that this method of silencing can be abolished by the presence of nucleotide mismatches against the target RNA, we sought to identify expressed RNA hairpins selective for silencing the mutant ataxin-7 transcript using a linked SNP. By targeting both short and full-length tagged ataxin-7 sequences, we show that mutation-specific selectivity can be obtained with single nucleotide mismatches to the wild-type RNA target incorporated 3' to the centre of the active strand of short hairpin RNAs. The activity of the most effective short hairpin RNA incorporating the nucleotide mismatch at position 16 was further studied in a heterozygous ataxin-7 disease model, demonstrating significantly reduced levels of toxic mutant ataxin-7 protein with decreased mutant protein aggregation and retention of normal wild-type protein in a non-aggregated diffuse cellular distribution. Allele-specific mutant ataxin7 silencing was also obtained with the use of primary microRNA mimics, the most highly effective construct also harbouring the single nucleotide mismatch at position 16, corroborating our earlier findings. Our data provide understanding of RNA interference guide strand anatomy optimised for the allele-specific silencing of a polyglutamine mutation linked SNP and give a basis for the use of allele-specific RNA interference as a viable therapeutic approach for spinocerebellar ataxia 7.	Alleles;Ataxin-7;Gene Silencing;Genetic Techniques;Green Fluorescent Proteins/metabolism;Heterozygote;Humans;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Mutation;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ genetics;Peptides/genetics;Phenotype;Plasmids/metabolism;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;RNA Interference;Spinocerebellar Ataxias/ genetics
Repression of cell proliferation by miR319-regulated TCP4	C. Schommer, et al.	2014	25053833	Leaf development has been extensively studied on a genetic level. However, little is known about the interplay between the developmental regulators and the cell cycle machinery--a link that ultimately affects leaf form and size. miR319 is a conserved microRNA that regulates TCP transcription factors involved in multiple developmental pathways, including leaf development and senescence, organ curvature, and hormone biosynthesis and signaling. Here, we analyze the participation of TCP4 in the control of cell proliferation. A small increase in TCP4 activity has an immediate impact on leaf cell number, by significantly reducing cell proliferation. Plants with high TCP4 levels have a strong reduction in the expression of genes known to be active in G2-M phase of the cell cycle. Part of these effects is mediated by induction of miR396, which represses Growth-Regulating Factor (GRF) transcription factors. Detailed analysis revealed TCP4 to be a direct regulator of MIR396b. However, we found that TCP4 can control cell proliferation through additional pathways, and we identified a direct connection between TCP4 and ICK1/KRP1, a gene involved in the progression of the cell cycle. Our results show that TCP4 can activate different pathways that repress cell proliferation.	Acetates/pharmacology;Arabidopsis/ cytology/drug effects/ genetics;Arabidopsis Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Base Sequence;Cell Count;Cell Proliferation/drug effects;Cyclopentanes/pharmacology;Gene Expression Regulation, Plant/drug effects;Genes, Plant;Genes, Reporter;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Mitosis/drug effects/genetics;Models, Biological;Molecular Sequence Data;Organ Size/drug effects;Oxylipins/pharmacology;Plant Leaves/anatomy & histology/cytology/drug effects/growth & development;Promoter Regions, Genetic/genetics;Protein Binding/drug effects/genetics;Repressor Proteins/metabolism;Transcription Factors/ genetics/metabolism;Grf;Ick1;Krp1;Tcp;miR319;miR396;microRNA;proliferation.
Control of jasmonate biosynthesis and senescence by miR319 targets	C. Schommer, et al.	2008	18816164	Considerable progress has been made in identifying the targets of plant microRNAs, many of which regulate the stability or translation of mRNAs that encode transcription factors involved in development. In most cases, it is unknown, however, which immediate transcriptional targets mediate downstream effects of the microRNA-regulated transcription factors. We identified a new process controlled by the miR319-regulated clade of TCP (TEOSINTE BRANCHED/CYCLOIDEA/PCF) transcription factor genes. In contrast to other miRNA targets, several of which modulate hormone responses, TCPs control biosynthesis of the hormone jasmonic acid. Furthermore, we demonstrate a previously unrecognized effect of TCPs on leaf senescence, a process in which jasmonic acid has been proposed to be a critical regulator. We propose that miR319-controlled TCP transcription factors coordinate two sequential processes in leaf development: leaf growth, which they negatively regulate, and leaf senescence, which they positively regulate.	Arabidopsis/anatomy & histology/ genetics/ metabolism;Arabidopsis Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Base Sequence;Cell Aging/ physiology;Cyclopentanes/ metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Plant;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Oxylipins/ metabolism;Plant Leaves/anatomy & histology/physiology;RNA, Plant/genetics/ metabolism;Sequence Alignment;Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;Transcription, Genetic
Target gene repression mediated by miRNAs miR-181c and miR-9 both of which are down-regulated by amyloid-beta	N. Schonrock, et al.	2012	21720722	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNA regulators of protein synthesis that are essential for normal brain development and function. Their profiles are significantly altered in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) that is characterized by amyloid-beta (Abeta) and tau deposition in brain. How deregulated miRNAs contribute to AD is not understood, as their dysfunction could be both a cause and a consequence of disease. To address this question we had previously profiled miRNAs in models of AD. This identified miR-9 and -181c as being down-regulated by Abeta in hippocampal cultures. Interestingly, there was a remarkable overlap with those miRNAs that are deregulated in Abeta-depositing APP23 transgenic mice and in human AD tissue. While the Abeta precursor protein APP itself is a target of miRNA regulation, the challenge resides in identifying further targets. Here, we expand the repertoire of miRNA target genes by identifying the 3' untranslated regions (3' UTRs) of TGFBI, TRIM2, SIRT1 and BTBD3 as being repressed by miR-9 and -181c, either alone or in combination. Taken together, our study identifies putative target genes of miRNAs miR-9 and 181c, which may function in brain homeostasis and disease pathogenesis.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Alzheimer Disease/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ physiology;Animals;Brain/metabolism;DNA, Recombinant/genetics;Down-Regulation;Extracellular Matrix Proteins/biosynthesis/ genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Genes, Reporter;HeLa Cells;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Nerve Tissue Proteins/biosynthesis/ genetics;Nuclear Proteins/biosynthesis/ genetics;Sirtuin 1/biosynthesis/ genetics;Transcription, Genetic;Transforming Growth Factor beta/biosynthesis/ genetics
Neuronal microRNA deregulation in response to Alzheimer's disease amyloid-beta	N. Schonrock, et al.	2010	20552018	Normal brain development and function depends on microRNA (miRNA) networks to fine tune the balance between the transcriptome and proteome of the cell. These small non-coding RNA regulators are highly enriched in brain where they play key roles in neuronal development, plasticity and disease. In neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), brain miRNA profiles are altered; thus miRNA dysfunction could be both a cause and a consequence of disease. Our study dissects the complexity of human AD pathology, and addresses the hypothesis that amyloid-beta (Abeta) itself, a known causative factor of AD, causes neuronal miRNA deregulation, which could contribute to the pathomechanisms of AD. We used sensitive TaqMan low density miRNA arrays (TLDA) on murine primary hippocampal cultures to show that about half of all miRNAs tested were down-regulated in response to Abeta peptides. Time-course assays of neuronal Abeta treatments show that Abeta is in fact a powerful regulator of miRNA levels as the response of certain mature miRNAs is extremely rapid. Bioinformatic analysis predicts that the deregulated miRNAs are likely to affect target genes present in prominent neuronal pathways known to be disrupted in AD. Remarkably, we also found that the miRNA deregulation in hippocampal cultures was paralleled in vivo by a deregulation in the hippocampus of Abeta42-depositing APP23 mice, at the onset of Abeta plaque formation. In addition, the miRNA deregulation in hippocampal cultures and APP23 hippocampus overlaps with those obtained in human AD studies. Taken together, our findings suggest that neuronal miRNA deregulation in response to an insult by Abeta may be an important factor contributing to the cascade of events leading to AD.	Alzheimer Disease/ metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ metabolism;Animals;Immunohistochemistry;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;Polymerase Chain Reaction;RNA, Messenger/ metabolism
New Neurons in Aging Brains: Molecular Control by Small Non-Coding RNAs	M. Schouten, et al.	2012	22363255	Adult neurogenesis generates functional neurons from neural stem cells present in specific brain regions. It is largely confined to two main regions: the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricle, and the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus (DG), in the hippocampus. With age, the function of the hippocampus and particularly the DG is impaired. For instance, adult neurogenesis is decreased with aging, in both proliferating and differentiation of newborn cells, while in parallel an age-associated decline in cognitive performance is often seen. Surprisingly, the synaptogenic potential of adult-born neurons is only marginally influenced by aging. Therefore, although proliferation, differentiation, and synaptogenesis of adult-born new neurons in the DG are closely related to each other, they are differentially affected by aging. In this review we discuss the crucial roles of a novel class of recently discovered modulators of gene expression, the small non-coding RNAs, in the regulation of adult neurogenesis. Multiple small non-coding RNAs are differentially expressed in the hippocampus. In particular a subgroup of the small non-coding RNAs, the microRNAs, fine-tune the progression of adult neurogenesis. This makes small non-coding RNAs appealing candidates to orchestrate the functional alterations in adult neurogenesis and cognition associated with aging. Finally, we summarize observations that link changes in circulating levels of steroid hormones with alterations in adult neurogenesis, cognitive decline, and vulnerability to psychopathology in advanced age, and discuss a potential interplay between steroid hormone receptors and microRNAs in cognitive decline in aging individuals.	adult neurogenesis;cognitive decline;hippocampus;microRNA;neural stem cells;neurodegeneration;steroid hormones
From cellular senescence to age-associated diseases: the miRNA connection	E. Schraml and J. Grillari	2012	24472232	Cellular senescence has evolved from an in-vitro model system to study aging in vitro to a multifaceted phenomenon of in-vivo importance as senescent cells in vivo have been identified and their removal delays the onset of age-associated diseases in a mouse model system. From the large emerging class of non-coding RNAs, miRNAs have only recently been functionally implied in the regulatory networks that are modified during the aging process. Here we summarize examples of similarities between the differential expression of miRNAs during senescence and age-associated diseases and suggest that these similarities might emphasize the importance of senescence for the pathogenesis of age-associated diseases. Understanding such a connection on the level of miRNAs might offer valuable opportunities for designing novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.	
MicroRNA-138 is a potential regulator of memory performance in humans	J. Schroder, et al.	2014	25071529	Genetic factors underlie a substantial proportion of individual differences in cognitive functions in humans, including processes related to episodic and working memory. While genetic association studies have proposed several candidate "memory genes," these currently explain only a minor fraction of the phenotypic variance. Here, we performed genome-wide screening on 13 episodic and working memory phenotypes in 1318 participants of the Berlin Aging Study II aged 60 years or older. The analyses highlight a number of novel single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with memory performance, including one located in a putative regulatory region of microRNA (miRNA) hsa-mir-138-5p (rs9882688, P-value = 7.8 x 10(-9)). Expression quantitative trait locus analyses on next-generation RNA-sequencing data revealed that rs9882688 genotypes show a significant correlation with the expression levels of this miRNA in 309 human lymphoblastoid cell lines (P-value = 5 x 10(-4)). In silico modeling of other top-ranking GWAS signals identified an additional memory-associated SNP in the 3' untranslated region (3' UTR) of DCP1B, a gene encoding a core component of the mRNA decapping complex in humans, predicted to interfere with hsa-mir-138-5p binding. This prediction was confirmed in vitro by luciferase assays showing differential binding of hsa-mir-138-5p to 3' UTR reporter constructs in two human cell lines (HEK293: P-value = 0.0470; SH-SY5Y: P-value = 0.0866). Finally, expression profiling of hsa-mir-138-5p and DCP1B mRNA in human post-mortem brain tissue revealed that both molecules are expressed simultaneously in frontal cortex and hippocampus, suggesting that the proposed interaction between hsa-mir-138-5p and DCP1B may also take place in vivo. In summary, by combining unbiased genome-wide screening with extensive in silico modeling, in vitro functional assays, and gene expression profiling, our study identified miRNA-138 as a potential molecular regulator of human memory function.	Dcp1b;Gwas;episodic memory;genome-wide association study;hsa-mir-138-5p;microRNA;working memory
Immunosenescence-associated microRNAs in age and heart failure	T. Seeger, et al.	2013	23258801	AIMS: Ageing of the immune system, immunosenescence, is characterized by impaired lymphopoiesis, especially B-lymphocyte maturation, and is a hallmark of chronic heart failure (CHF). MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are non-coding, small RNAs, which post-transcriptionally control gene expression of multiple target genes. The miR-181 family is known to control haematopoietic lineage differentiation. Here, we study the role of the miR-181 family in immunosenescence and CHF. METHODS AND RESULTS: We conducted a clinical study analysing peripheral blood (PB) for miRNA expression and leucocyte distribution of young healthy controls (25 +/- 4 years; n = 30), aged healthy controls (64 +/- 5 years; n = 13), and age-matched CHF patients (64 +/- 11years; n = 18). The expression of miR-181 family members was reduced, whereas miR-34a was increased in PB of aged individuals. In particular, miR-181c was further reduced in age-matched CHF patients. In PB, we observed reduced numbers of lymphocytes, in particular cytotoxic T cells and B cells, with rising age, and the expression of miR-181 correlated with the number of B cells. Notably, in CHF patients, ischaemic heart failure was associated with a further reduction of total B cells as well as their subpopulations, such as memory B cells, compared with age-matched healthy volunteers. CONCLUSIONS: Ageing- and CHF-associated changes in PB leucocyte subsets are paralleled by alterations in the expression of miRNAs involved in lymphopoiesis, which might play an important role in the age-related and CHF-mediated dysregulation of immune functions resulting in immunosenescence. Furthermore, miR-181c may serve as a marker for reduced immune functions in CHF patients.	Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ immunology;B-Lymphocytes/pathology;Case-Control Studies;Chronic Disease;Down-Regulation;Female;Flow Cytometry;Gene Expression Regulation/ physiology;Heart Failure/genetics/ immunology;Humans;Immune System/physiology;Lymphopoiesis/ immunology;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;T-Lymphocytes/pathology;Young Adult
Age-driven developmental drift in the pathogenesis of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis	M. Selman, et al.	2016	27390284	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive and usually lethal disease of unknown aetiology. A growing body of evidence supports that IPF represents an epithelial-driven process characterised by aberrant epithelial cell behaviour, fibroblast/myofibroblast activation and excessive accumulation of extracellular matrix with the subsequent destruction of the lung architecture. The mechanisms involved in the abnormal hyper-activation of the epithelium are unclear, but we propose that recapitulation of pathways and processes critical to embryological development associated with a tissue specific age-related stochastic epigenetic drift may be implicated. These pathways may also contribute to the distinctive behaviour of IPF fibroblasts. Genomic and epigenomic studies have revealed that wingless/Int, sonic hedgehog and other developmental signalling pathways are reactivated and deregulated in IPF. Moreover, some of these pathways cross-talk with transforming growth factor-beta activating a profibrotic feedback loop. The expression pattern of microRNAs is also dysregulated in IPF and exhibits a similar expression profile to embryonic lungs. In addition, senescence, a process usually associated with ageing, which occurs early in alveolar epithelial cells of IPF lungs, likely represents a conserved programmed developmental mechanism. Here, we review the major developmental pathways that get twisted in IPF, and discuss the connection with ageing and potential therapeutic approaches.	
Mir363-3p improves ischemic stroke outcomes in female but not male rats	A. Selvamani and F. Sohrabji	2017	27773791	With age, stroke prevalence is higher, and stroke outcome, worse, in women. Thus there is an urgent need to identify stroke neuroprotectants for this population. Using a preclinical stroke model, our studies focused on microRNAs (miRNAs), a class of translational repressors, as neuroprotectants. Analysis of circulating miRNA in the acute phase of stroke indicated potential neuroprotective capacity for miR363. Specifically, mir363 is elevated in serum of adult female rats that typically have small infarct volumes, but is deficient in age-matched males or middle-aged males and females, groups that have greater stroke-associated impairment. To directly test the effect of mir363 on stroke outcomes, first, adult females were treated with antagomirs to mir363 post stroke and next, middle-aged females were treated with mimic to mir363-3p post stroke. Antagomir treatment to adult females significantly increased infarct volume and impaired sensory motor performance. Reciprocally, mir363 mimic to middle-aged females reduced infarct volume, preserved forebrain microvessels and improved sensory motor performance. In the early acute stroke phase, mir363-3p mimic reduced the expression and functional activity of caspase-3, a critical component of the apoptotic cell cascade. In contrast, mir363-3p mimic treatment had no effect on stroke outcomes or caspase regulation in young males. Collectively, these studies show that mir363 is neuroprotective for stroke in females and implicates caspase-3 as a sex-specific miRNA-sensitive node for recovery from ischemic stroke.	Aging;Caspase-3;Cerebral ischemia;microRNA
Circulating miRNA profiles provide a biomarker for severity of stroke outcomes associated with age and sex in a rat model	A. Selvamani, et al.	2014	24428837	Small non-coding RNA [miRNA (microRNA)] found in the circulation have been used successfully as biomarkers and mechanistic targets for chronic and acute disease. The present study investigated the impact of age and sex on miRNA expression following ischaemic stroke in an animal model. Adult (6 month) and middle-aged (11-12 months) female and male rats were subject to MCAo (middle cerebral artery occlusion) using ET-1 (endothelin-1). Circulating miRNAs were analysed in blood samples at 2 and 5 days post-stroke, and brain miRNAs were analysed at 5 days post-stroke. Although stroke-associated infarction was observed in all groups, infarct volume and sensory-motor deficits were significantly reduced in adult females compared with middle-aged females, adult males or middle-aged males. At 2 days post-stroke, 21 circulating miRNAs were differentially regulated and PCA (principal component analysis) confirmed that most of the variance was due to age. At 5 days post-stroke, 78 circulating miRNAs exhibited significantly different regulation, and most of the variance was associated with sex. A small cohort (five) of miRNAs, miR-15a, miR-19b, miR-32 miR-136 and miR-199a-3p, were found to be highly expressed exclusively in adult females compared with middle-aged females, adult males and middle-aged males. Predicted gene targets for these five miRNAs analysed for KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) pathways revealed that the top ten KEGG pathways were related to growth factor signalling, cell structure and PI3K (phosphoinositide 3-kinase)/Akt and mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) signalling. Overall, the pattern of circulating miRNA expression suggests an early influence of age in stroke pathology, with a later emergence of sex as a factor for stroke severity.	Aging;Animals;Biomarkers/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Female;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis/methods;Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases/metabolism;Rats;Sex Factors;Stroke/ genetics/ metabolism;Time Factors
Evolutionary conservation and disease gene association of the human genes composing pseudogenes	K. Sen and T. C. Ghosh	2012	22521745	Pseudogenes, the 'genomic fossils' present portrayal of evolutionary history of human genome. The human genes configuring pseudogenes are also now coming forth as important resources in the study of human protein evolution. In this communication, we explored evolutionary conservation of the genes forming pseudogenes over the genes lacking any pseudogene and delving deeper, we probed an evolutionary rate difference between the disease genes in the two groups. We illustrated this differential evolutionary pattern by gene expressivity, number of regulatory miRNA targeting per gene, abundance of protein complex forming genes and lesser percentage of protein intrinsic disorderness. Furthermore, pseudogenes are observed to harbor sequence variations, over their entirety, those become degenerative disease-causing mutations though the disease involvement of their progenitors is still unexplored. Here, we unveiled an immense association of disease genes in the genes casting pseudogenes in human. We interpreted the issue by disease associated miRNA targeting, genes containing polymorphisms in miRNA target sites, abundance of genes having disease causing non-synonymous mutations, disease gene specific network properties, presence of genes having repeat regions, affluence of dosage sensitive genes and the presence of intrinsically unstructured protein regions.	Biological Evolution;Genetic Association Studies;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Genome, Human;Humans;Polymorphism, Genetic;Pseudogenes/ genetics
Impaired cholesterol efflux in senescent macrophages promotes age-related macular degeneration	A. Sene, et al.	2013	23562078	Pathologic angiogenesis mediated by abnormally polarized macrophages plays a central role in common age-associated diseases such as atherosclerosis, cancer, and macular degeneration. Here we demonstrate that abnormal polarization in older macrophages is caused by programmatic changes that lead to reduced expression of ATP binding cassette transporter ABCA1. Downregulation of ABCA1 by microRNA-33 impairs the ability of macrophages to effectively efflux intracellular cholesterol, which in turn leads to higher levels of free cholesterol within senescent macrophages. Elevated intracellular lipid polarizes older macrophages to an abnormal, alternatively activated phenotype that promotes pathologic vascular proliferation. Mice deficient for Abca1, but not Abcg1, demonstrate an accelerated aging phenotype, whereas restoration of cholesterol efflux using LXR agonists or miR-33 inhibitors reverses it. Monocytes from older humans with age-related macular degeneration showed similar changes. These findings provide an avenue for therapeutic modulation of macrophage function in common age-related diseases.	ATP Binding Cassette Transporter 1;ATP Binding Cassette Transporter, Sub-Family G, Member 1;ATP-Binding Cassette Transporters/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/metabolism;Animals;Cell Aging;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Cholesterol/ metabolism;Diet, High-Fat;Endothelium, Vascular/cytology/metabolism;Humans;Leukocytes, Mononuclear/immunology/metabolism;Lipoproteins/metabolism;Macrophages/cytology/ metabolism;Macular Degeneration/ metabolism/pathology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Knockout;Mice, Obese;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Neovascularization, Pathologic;Phenotype
Overexpression of blood microRNAs 103a, 30b, and 29a in L-dopa-treated patients with PD	A. Serafin, et al.	2015	25596505	OBJECTIVE: The aims of the present study were to profile the expression of several candidate microRNAs (miRNAs) in blood from L-dopa-treated and drug-naive patients with Parkinson disease (PD) vs unaffected controls and to interpret the miRNA expression data in a biological context. METHODS: We analyzed RNAs from peripheral blood of 36 L-dopa-treated, 10 drug-naive patients with PD and unaffected controls matched 1:1 by sex and age. We evaluated expression by reverse transcription-quantitative real-time PCR, and we analyzed data using a 2-tailed paired t test. To detect miRNA targets, several miRNA resources were combined to generate an overall score for each candidate gene using weighted rank aggregation. RESULTS: Significant overexpression of miR-103a-3p (p < 0.0001), miR-30b-5p (p = 0.002), and miR-29a-3p (p = 0.005) in treated patients with PD was observed, and promising candidate target genes for these were revealed by an integrated in silico analysis. CONCLUSIONS: We revealed 3 candidate biomarkers for PD. miRNAs 30b-5p and 29a-3p replicated a documented deregulation in PD albeit opposite to published data, while for miR-103a-3p, we demonstrated for the first time an overexpression in treated patients with PD. Expression studies in patients and/or in isolated peripheral blood mononuclear cells before and after L-dopa administration are necessary to define the involvement of L-dopa treatment in the observed overexpression. Our in silico analysis to prioritize targets of deregulated miRNAs identified candidate target genes, including genes related to neurodegeneration and PD. Despite the preliminary character of our study, the results provide a rationale for further clarifying the role of the identified miRNAs in the pathogenesis of PD and for validating their diagnostic potential.	Aged;Antiparkinson Agents/ therapeutic use;Biomarkers, Pharmacological/blood;Computer Simulation;Female;Humans;Levodopa/ therapeutic use;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood;Parkinson Disease/ blood/drug therapy;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction
Centenarians, but not octogenarians, up-regulate the expression of microRNAs	E. Serna, et al.	2012	23233880	Centenarians exhibit extreme longevity and a remarkable compression of morbidity. They have a unique capacity to maintain homeostatic mechanisms. Since small non-coding RNAs (including microRNAs) are implicated in the regulation of gene expression, we hypothesised that longevity of centenarians may reflect alterations in small non-coding RNA expression. We report the first comparison of microRNAs expression profiles in mononuclear cells from centenarians, octogenarians and young individuals resident near Valencia, Spain. Principal Component Analysis of the expression of 15,644 mature microRNAs and, 2,334 snoRNAs and scaRNAs in centenarians revealed a significant overlap with profiles in young individuals but not with octogenarians and a significant up-regulation of 7 small non-coding RNAs in centenarians compared to young persons and notably 102 small non-coding RNAs when compared with octogenarians. We suggest that the small non-coding RNAs signature in centenarians may provide insights into the underlying molecular mechanisms endowing centenarians with extreme longevity.	Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Longevity/ genetics;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;Principal Component Analysis;RNA, Small Nucleolar/biosynthesis/ genetics;RNA, Untranslated/biosynthesis/ genetics;Spain;Up-Regulation
MicroRNA changes in advanced radiotherapy techniques and its effect to secondary cancers	F. Sert	2012	22658362	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a kind of RNA, produced copies of endogenous hairpin-shaped, are 21-25 nucleotide length, small, and single chain. Recent studies have revealed that hundreds of miRNAs are found in the human genome and are responsible for diverse cellular processes including the control of developmental timing, cell proliferation, apoptosis and tumorigenesis. miRNAs can activate the initiation of apoptosis, cessation of the cell cycle and aging in case of DNA damage by stimulating the tumor suppressor target gene p53 directly and indirectly. DNA damage is composed by multiple stress factors including ionizing radiation, reactive oxygen species, UV exposure and drugs like doxorubicin and camptothecin. Radiation is used widely in health, academic area, and industry for producing electricity. As a result of using radiation widely in different fields, environmental radiation exposure is increasing as well. Whereas high dose radiation exposure causes DNA damage and gives rise to ionization to molecules of living cells by accelerating malignant tumor formation. Fields receiving high dose radiation are evaluated in terms of adverse effects, therapeutic efficacy and secondary malignancies in radiotherapy applications. Dose distributions are re-created when it is required. On the other hand, fields received low dose and the doses that the patient is exposure in simulation and/or portal imaging are often overlooked. The changes in miRNA levels arising in low dose radiation field and its effect to neoplastic process in cell will be pathfinder in terms of secondary cancers or second primary cancers. It is shown that there are differences between the level changes of miRNA in low dose fields which are overlooked in daily practical applications because of not resulting with acute or chronic side effect and the level changes of miRNA in high dose fields. With the help of verifying so-called differences in low dose fields which are seen in advanced radiation techniques, radiation oncologists must be careful when using these techniques in childhood cancers and the patient group which have long overall survival period. Additionally, demonstrating the pathway which is influenced by miRNA changes can provide us the opportunity to focus on the exact cancer type which has to be followed. So that we can detect the secondary cancers earlier and can treat them with long expected survival period.	DNA Damage;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neoplasms/genetics/ radiotherapy;Radiotherapy
Micro-RNA abundance and stability in human brain: specific alterations in Alzheimer's disease temporal lobe neocortex	P. Sethi and W. J. Lukiw	2009	19406203	Micro-RNA (miRNA) mediated regulation of messenger RNA (mRNA) complexity in the central nervous system (CNS) is emerging as a critical factor in the control of CNS-specific gene expression during development, plasticity, aging and disease. In these studies, miRNA array and Northern blot based tracking of specific miRNA abundances and decay kinetics in human neural (HN) cells in primary culture and in short post-mortem interval (PMI, approximately 1h) human brain tissues showed a limited stability and relatively short half-life ( approximately 1-3.5h) for specific brain-enriched miRNAs. In short PMI Alzheimer's disease (AD)-affected temporal lobe neocortex, miRNA-9, miRNA-125b and miRNA-146a were found to be significantly up-regulated, an effect that was not seen in several related neurological disorders. The results suggest (a) that unless specifically stabilized, certain brain-enriched miRNAs represent a rapidly executed signaling system employing highly transient effectors of CNS gene expression, and (b) that in AD temporal lobe neocortex specific brain miRNAs are significantly up-regulated in abundance and strongly correlate with the presence of AD-type neuropatholgical change.	Aged;Alzheimer Disease/ metabolism;Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/metabolism;Blotting, Northern;Brain/metabolism;Cells, Cultured;Coculture Techniques;Humans;Kinetics;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Neurons/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Parkinson Disease/metabolism;Schizophrenia/metabolism;Temporal Lobe/ metabolism
The Ticking of the Epigenetic Clock: Antipsychotic Drugs in Old Age	A. Sfera, et al.	2016	27630617	BACKGROUND: Exposed to antipsychotic drugs (APDs), older individuals with dementing illness are at risk of cerebrovascular adverse effects (CVAE), including sudden death. Transient microvascular dysfunctions are known to occur in younger persons exposed to APDs; however, they seldom progress to CVAE, suggesting that APDs alone are insufficient for engendering this untoward effect. It is, therefore, believed that a preexistent microvascular damage is necessary for CVAE to take place, but the exact nature of this lesion remains unclear. CNS small vessel disease (SVD) is a well-known age-related risk factor for strokes, dementia, and sudden death, which may constitute the initial CVAE-predisposing pathology. Therefore, we propose the two strikes CVAE paradigm, in which SVD represents the first strike, while exposure to APDs, the second. In this model, both strikes must be present for CVAE to take place, and the neuroimaging load of white matter hyperintensities may be directly proportional with the CVAE risk. To investigate this hypothesis at the molecular level, we focused on a seemingly unrelated phenomenon: both APDs and SVD were found protective against a similar repertoire of cancers and their spread to the brain (1-4). Since microRNA-29 has shown efficacy against the same malignancies and has been associated with small vessels pathology, we narrowed our search down to this miR, hypothesizing that the APDs mechanism of action includes miR-29 upregulation, which in turn facilitates the development of SVD. AIM: To assess whether miR-29 can be utilized as a peripheral blood biomarker for SVD and CVAE risk. METHOD: We conducted a search of experimentally verified miR-29 target genes utilizing the public domain tools miRanda, RNA22 and Weizemann Institute of Science miRNA Analysis. We identified in total 67 experimentally verified target genes for miR-29 family, 18 of which correlate with microvascular integrity and may be relevant for CVAE. CONCLUSION: Upregulated microRNA-29 silences the expression of 18 genes connected with capillary stability, engendering a major vulnerability for SVD (first strike) which in turn increases the risk for CVAE after exposure to APDs (second strike).	Sirt-1;Vegf;antipsychotic medications;diabetes mellitus;microRNA-29;stroke
Proteomic and epigenomic markers of sepsis-induced delirium (SID)	A. Sfera, et al.	2015	26579527	In elderly population sepsis is one of the leading causes of intensive care unit (ICU) admissions in the United States. Sepsis-induced delirium (SID) is the most frequent cause of delirium in ICU (Martin et al., 2010). Together delirium and SID represent under-recognized public health problems which place an increasing financial burden on the US health care system, currently estimated at 143-152 billion dollars per year (Leslie et al., 2008). The interest in SID was recently reignited as it was demonstrated that, contrary to prior beliefs, cognitive deficits induced by this condition may be irreversible and lead to dementia (Pandharipande et al., 2013; Brummel et al., 2014). Conversely, it is construed that diagnosing SID early or mitigating its full blown manifestations may preempt geriatric cognitive disorders. Biological markers specific for sepsis and SID would facilitate the development of potential therapies, monitor the disease process and at the same time enable elderly individuals to make better informed decisions regarding surgeries which may pose the risk of complications, including sepsis and delirium. This article proposes a battery of peripheral blood markers to be used for diagnostic and prognostic purposes in sepsis and SID. Though each individual marker may not be specific enough, we believe that together as a battery they may achieve the necessary accuracy to answer two important questions: who may be vulnerable to the development of sepsis, and who may develop SID and irreversible cognitive deficits following sepsis?	Aquaporin-4 (AQP-4);T helper 17 cells;astrocytes;cell cycle;exosomes;lymphocyte proliferation test (LPT);microRNA
DNA/RNA chimera templates improve the emission intensity and target the accessibility of silver nanocluster-based sensors for human microRNA detection	P. Shah, et al.	2015	25759134	In recent years microRNAs (miRNAs) have been established as important biomarkers in a variety of diseases including cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, aging, Alzheimer's disease, asthma, autoimmune disease and liver diseases. As a consequence, a variety of monitoring methods for miRNAs have been developed, including a fast and simple method for miRNA detection by exploitation of the unique photoluminescence of DNA-templated silver nanoclusters (DNA/AgNCs). To increase the versatility of the AgNC-based method, we have adopted DNA/RNA chimera templates for AgNC-based probes, allowing response from several human miRNAs which are hardly detectable with DNA-based probes. Here, we demonstrate in detail the power of DNA/RNA chimera/AgNC probes in detecting two human miRNAs, let-7a and miR-200c. The DNA/RNA chimera-based probes are highly efficient to determine the level of miRNAs in several human cell lines.	Base Sequence;Biosensing Techniques/ methods;Cell Line;DNA Probes/ chemistry/genetics;Humans;Metal Nanoparticles/ chemistry;MicroRNAs/ analysis;RNA Probes/ chemistry/genetics;Silver/ chemistry;Spectrometry, Fluorescence
miR-29c-3p promotes senescence of human mesenchymal stem cells by targeting CNOT6 through p53-p21 and p16-pRB pathways	J. Shang, et al.	2016	26792405	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are important seed cells for tissue engineering and are promising targets for cell-based therapies. However, the replicative senescence of MSCs during in vitro culture limits their research and clinical applications. The molecular mechanisms underlying the replicative senescence of MSCs are not fully understood. Evidence suggests that miRNAs play important roles in replicative senescence. A microarray analysis found that the miR-29c-3p level was significantly increased during the MSC senescence process. In our study, we investigated the roles of miR-29c-3p in senescence of MSCs. We cultured MSCs for long periods of time, up and down-regulated the miR-29c-3p expression in MSCs, and examined the senescent phenotype changes. The over-expression of miR-29c-3p led to enhanced senescence-associated-beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-gal) staining, senescence associated secretory phenotype (SASP), senescence associated heterochromatic foci (SAHF), reduced proliferation ability, retarded osteogenic differentiation and corresponding changes in senescence markers, whereas the miR-29c-3p down-regulation had the opposite results. Dual-luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that CNOT6 is the target gene of miR-29c-3p. Knockdown of CNOT6 confirmed its inhibitory effects on the senescence of MSCs. In addition, Western blot results showed that both the p53-p21 and the p16-pRB pathways were activated during the miR-29c-3p-induced senescence of MSCs. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that miR-29c-3p promotes the senescence of MSCs by targeting CNOT6 through p53-p21 and p16-pRB pathways and highlight the contribution of post-transcriptional regulation to stem cell senescence.	Cell Aging/ genetics;Cells, Cultured;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/genetics/metabolism;Exoribonucleases/ genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ physiology;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Neoplasm Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Retinoblastoma Protein/genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction/genetics;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/metabolism;Mesenchymal stem cell;MicroRNA;Replicative senescence;Tissue engineering
Molecule of the month: miRNA and proteins in Alzheimer's disease	P. Shapshak	2013	23516333		
HIV associated dementia and HIV encephalitis II: Genes on chromosome 22 expressed in individually microdissected Globus pallidus neurons (Preliminary analysis)	P. Shapshak, et al.	2011	21738310	We analyzed RNA gene expression in neurons from 16 cases in four categories, HIV associated dementia with HIV encephalitis (HAD/HIVE), HAD alone, HIVE alone, and HIV-1-positive (HIV+)with neither HAD nor HIVE. We produced the neurons by laser capture microdissection (LCM) from cryopreserved globus pallidus. Of 55,000 gene fragments analyzed, expression of 197 genes was identified with significance (p = 0.005).We examined each gene for its position in the human genome and found a non-stochastic occurrence for only seven genes, on chromosome 22. Six of the seven genes were identified, CSNK1E (casein kinase 1 epsilon), DGCR8 (Di George syndrome critical region 8), GGA1 (Golgi associated gamma adaptin ear containing ARF binding protein 1), MAPK11 (mitogen activated protein kinase 11), SMCR7L (Smith-Magenis syndrome chromosome region candidate 7-like), andTBC1D22A (TBC1 domain family member 22A). Six genes (CSNK1E, DGCR8, GGA1, MAPK11, SMCR7L, and one unidentified gene) had similar expression profiles across HAD/HIVE, HAD, and HIVE vs. HIV+ whereas one gene (TBC1D22A) had a differing gene expression profile across these patient categories. There are several mental disease-related genes including miRNAs on chromosome 22 and two of the genes (DGCR8 and SMCR7L) identified here are mental disease-related. We speculate that dysregulation of gene expression may occur through mechanisms involving chromatin damage and remodeling. We conclude that the pathogenesis of NeuroAIDS involves dysregulation of expression of mental disease-related genes on chromosome 22 as well as additional genes on other chromosomes. The involvement of these genes as well as miRNA requires additional investigation since numerous genes appear to be involved.	Chromosome 22;Globus pallidus;Had;Hive;Lcm;brain;gene expression;miRNA;network;neuron;pathway
The role of SIRT6 protein in aging and reprogramming of human induced pluripotent stem cells	A. Sharma, et al.	2013	23653361	Aging is known to be the single most important risk factor for multiple diseases. Sirtuin 6, or SIRT6, has recently been identified as a critical regulator of transcription, genome stability, telomere integrity, DNA repair, and metabolic homeostasis. A knockout mouse model of SIRT6 has displayed dramatic phenotypes of accelerated aging. In keeping with its role in aging, we demonstrated that human dermal fibroblasts (HDFs) from older human subjects were more resistant to reprogramming by classic Yamanaka factors than those from younger human subjects, but the addition of SIRT6 during reprogramming improved such efficiency in older HDFs substantially. Despite the importance of SIRT6, little is known about the molecular mechanism of its regulation. We show, for the first, time posttranscriptional regulation of SIRT6 by miR-766 and inverse correlation in the expression of this microRNA in HDFs from different age groups. Our results suggest that SIRT6 regulates miR-766 transcription via a feedback regulatory loop, which has implications for the modulation of SIRT6 expression in reprogramming of aging cells.	Adolescent;Age Factors;Aging/genetics/ physiology;Cells, Cultured;Cellular Reprogramming/genetics/ physiology;Cluster Analysis;Dermis/cytology;Embryoid Bodies/metabolism/physiology;Fibroblasts/cytology/metabolism/physiology;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Immunohistochemistry;Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells/metabolism/ physiology;MicroRNAs/genetics;Middle Aged;Models, Genetic;Pluripotent Stem Cells/metabolism/physiology;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Sirtuins/genetics/metabolism/ physiology;Aging;Embryonic Stem Cell;Gene Expression;Induced pluripotent Stem Cells;MicroRNA;Molecular Biology;Transcription Factors
Biomarkers in Alzheimer's Disease-Recent Update	S. Sharma and W. Lipincott	2017	28219319	Alzheimer disease (AD) is an age-related neurodegenerative disorder, characterized by loss of memory and cognitive function. It is the common cause of dementia in elderly and is a global health concern as the population of people aged 85 and older, is growing alarmingly. Although pharmacotherapy for the treatment of AD has improved, lot of work remains to treat this devastating disease. AD pathology begins even before the onset of clinical symptoms. Because therapies could be more effective if implemented early in the disease progression, it is highly prudent to discover reliable biomarkers, to detect its exact pathophysiology during pre-symptomatic stage. Biomarker(s) with high sensitivity and specificity would facilitate AD diagnosis at early stages. Currently, CSF amyloid beta 1-42, total tau, and phosphorylated tau181 are used as AD biomarkers. This report describes conventional and potential in-vitro and in-vivo biomarkers of AD. Particularly, in-vitro transcriptomic, proteomic, lipidomic, and metabolomic; body fluid biomarkers (C-reactive proteins, homocysteine, alpha-sunuclein index, and dehydroepiandrosterone sulphate) from blood, serum, plasma, CSF, and saliva; and neuronal, platelets, and lymphocyte microRNA, mtDNA, and Charnoly body are detected. In-vivo physiological and neurobehavioral biomarkers are evaluated by analyzing computerized EEG, event-related potentials, circadian rhythm, and multimodality fusion imaging including: CT, MRI, SPECT, and PET. More specifically, PET imaging biomarkers representing reduced fronto-temporal 18FdG uptake, increased 11C or 18F-PIB uptake, 11C-PBR28 to measure 18 kDa translocator protein (TSPO), a biomarker for inflammation; and 3-D MRI (ventriculomegaly)/MRS are performed for early and effective clinical management of AD.	
Plasma microRNA biomarkers for detection of mild cognitive impairment: biomarker validation study	K. S. Sheinerman, et al.	2013	24368295	A minimally invasive test for early detection and monitoring of Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative diseases is a highly unmet need for drug development and planning of patient care. Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) is a syndrome characteristic of early stages of many neurodegenerative diseases. Recently, we have identified two sets of circulating brain-enriched miRNAs, the miR-132 family (miR-128, miR-132, miR-874) normalized per miR-491-5p and the miR-134 family (miR-134, miR-323-3p, miR-382) normalized per miR-370, capable of differentiating MCI from age-matched control (AMC) with high accuracy. Here we report a biomarker validation study of the identified miRNA pairs using larger independent sets of age- and gender- matched plasma samples. The biomarker pairs detected MCI with sensitivity, specificity and overall accuracy similar to those obtained in the first study. The miR-132 family biomarkers differentiated MCI from AMC with 84%-94% sensitivity and 96%-98% specificity, and the miR-134 family biomarkers demonstrated 74%-88% sensitivity and 80-92% specificity. When miRNAs of the same family were combined, miR-132 and miR-134 family biomarkers demonstrated 96% and 87% overall accuracy, respectively. No statistically significant differences in the biomarker concentrations in samples obtained from male and female subjects were observed for either MCI or AMC. The present study also demonstrated that the highest sensitivity and specificity are achieved with pairs of miRNAs whose concentrations in plasma are highly correlated.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ blood/metabolism;Biomarkers/blood/metabolism;Case-Control Studies;Cognitive Dysfunction/ blood/diagnosis/metabolism;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Reproducibility of Results
Plasma microRNA biomarkers for detection of mild cognitive impairment	K. S. Sheinerman, et al.	2012	23001356	Early stages of many neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, vascular and frontotemporal dementia, and Parkinson's disease, are frequently associated with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI). A minimally invasive screening test for early detection of MCI may be used to select optimal patient groups in clinical trials, to monitor disease progression and response to treatment, and to better plan patient clinical care. Here, we examined the feasibility of using pairs of brain-enriched plasma microRNA (miRNA), at least one of which is enriched in synapses and neurites, as biomarkers that could differentiate patients with MCI from age-matched controls. The identified biomarker pairs fall into two sets: the "miR-132 family" (miR-128/miR-491-5p, miR-132/miR-491-5p and mir-874/miR-491-5p) and the "miR-134 family" (miR-134/miR-370, miR-323-3p/miR-370 and miR-382/miR-370). The area under the Receiver-Operating Characteristic curve for the differentiation of MCI from controls using these biomarker pairs is 0.91-0.95, with sensitivity and specificity at 79%-100% (miR-132 family) and 79%-95% (miR-134 family), and p<0.001. In a separate longitudinal study, the identified miRNA biomarker pairs successfully detected MCI in majority of patients at asymptomatic stage 1-5 years prior to clinical diagnosis. The reported biomarker pairs also appear useful for detecting age-related brain changes. Further testing in a larger study is necessary for validation of these results.	Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Area Under Curve;Biomarkers/blood;Cognitive Dysfunction/ blood/ diagnosis/genetics;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood;Middle Aged;Pilot Projects;ROC Curve;Sensitivity and Specificity
Genome-wide landscape of DNA methylomes and their relationship with mRNA and miRNA transcriptomes in oxidative and glycolytic skeletal muscles	L. Shen, et al.	2016	27561200	The physiological, biochemical and functional differences between oxidative and glycolytic muscles play important roles in human metabolic health and in animal meat quality. To explore these differences, we determined the genome-wide landscape of DNA methylomes and their relationship with the mRNA and miRNA transcriptomes of the oxidative muscle psoas major (PMM) and the glycolytic muscle longissimus dorsi (LDM). We observed the hypo-methylation of sub-telomeric regions. A high mitochondrial content contributed to fast replicative senescence in PMM. The differentially methylated regions (DMRs) in promoters (478) and gene bodies (5,718) were mainly enriched in GTPase regulator activity and signaling cascade-mediated pathways. Integration analysis revealed that the methylation status within gene promoters (or gene bodies) and miRNA promoters was negatively correlated with mRNA and miRNA expression, respectively. Numerous genes were closely related to distinct phenotypic traits between LDM and PMM. For example, the hyper-methylation and down-regulation of HK-2 and PFKFB4 were related to decrease glycolytic potential in PMM. In addition, promoter hypo-methylation and the up-regulation of miR-378 silenced the expression of the target genes and promoted capillary biosynthesis in PMM. Together, these results improve understanding of muscle metabolism and development from genomic and epigenetic perspectives.	
A miR-130a-YAP positive feedback loop promotes organ size and tumorigenesis	S. Shen, et al.	2015	26272168	Organ size determination is one of the most intriguing unsolved mysteries in biology. Aberrant activation of the major effector and transcription co-activator YAP in the Hippo pathway causes drastic organ enlargement in development and underlies tumorigenesis in many human cancers. However, how robust YAP activation is achieved during organ size control remains elusive. Here we report that the YAP signaling is sustained through a novel microRNA-dependent positive feedback loop. miR-130a, which is directly induced by YAP, could effectively repress VGLL4, an inhibitor of YAP activity, thereby amplifying the YAP signals. Inhibition of miR-130a reversed liver size enlargement induced by Hippo pathway inactivation and blocked YAP-induced tumorigenesis. Furthermore, the Drosophila Hippo pathway target bantam functionally mimics miR-130a by repressing the VGLL4 homolog SdBP/Tgi. These findings reveal an evolutionarily conserved positive feedback mechanism underlying robustness of the Hippo pathway in size control and tumorigenesis.	Adaptor Proteins, Signal Transducing/antagonists &;inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;Animals;Base Sequence;Carcinogenesis;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Cysteine-Rich Protein 61/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/metabolism;Drosophila/metabolism;Drosophila Proteins/metabolism;Hep G2 Cells;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred ICR;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/ metabolism;Organ Size/genetics;Phosphoproteins/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;Sequence Alignment;Signal Transduction;Transcription Factors/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/metabolism;Transplantation, Heterologous
A steroid receptor-microRNA switch regulates life span in response to signals from the gonad	Y. Shen, et al.	2012	23239738	Although the gonad primarily functions in procreation, it also affects animal life span. Here, we show that removal of the Caenorhabditis elegans germ line triggers a switch in the regulatory state of the organism to promote longevity, co-opting components involved in larval developmental timing circuits. These components include the DAF-12 steroid receptor, which is involved in the larval stage two-to-stage three (L2-L3) transition and up-regulates members of the let-7 microRNA (miRNA) family. The miRNAs target an early larval nuclear factor lin-14 and akt-1/kinase, thereby stimulating DAF-16/FOXO signaling to extend life. Our studies suggest that metazoan life span is coupled to the gonad through elements of a developmental timer.	Animals;Caenorhabditis elegans/genetics/growth & development/ physiology;Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins/genetics/ physiology;Forkhead Transcription Factors;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Germ Cells/metabolism;Gonads/ metabolism;Larva/genetics/growth & development/physiology;Longevity/genetics/ physiology;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Nuclear Proteins/genetics/physiology;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/genetics/physiology;Receptors, Cytoplasmic and Nuclear/genetics/ physiology;Receptors, Steroid/genetics/ physiology;Signal Transduction;Transcription Factors/genetics/physiology
miR-17-3p Contributes to Exercise-Induced Cardiac Growth and Protects against Myocardial Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury	J. Shi, et al.	2017	28255358	Limited microRNAs (miRNAs, miRs) have been reported to be necessary for exercise-induced cardiac growth and essential for protection against pathological cardiac remodeling. Here we determined members of the miR-17-92 cluster and their passenger miRNAs expressions in two distinct murine exercise models and found that miR-17-3p was increased in both. miR-17-3p promoted cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, proliferation, and survival. TIMP-3 was identified as a direct target gene of miR-17-3p whereas PTEN was indirectly inhibited by miR-17-3p. Inhibition of miR-17-3p in vivo attenuated exercise-induced cardiac growth including cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and expression of markers of myocyte proliferation. Importantly, mice injected with miR-17-3p agomir were protected from adverse remodeling after cardiac ischemia/reperfusion injury. Collectively, these data suggest that miR-17-3p contributes to exercise-induced cardiac growth and protects against adverse ventricular remodeling. miR-17-3p may represent a novel therapeutic target to promote functional recovery after cardiac ischemia/reperfusion.	Cardiac growth;Exercise;microRNA.
Up-regulation of the mitochondrial malate dehydrogenase by oxidative stress is mediated by miR-743a	Q. Shi and G. E. Gibson	2011	21623795	These experiments reveal for the first time that microRNAs (miRNAs) mediate oxidant regulated expression of a mitochondrial tricarboxylic acid cycle gene (mdh2). mdh2 encoded malate dehydrogenase (MDH) is elevated by an unknown mechanism in brains of patients that died with Alzheimer's disease. Oxidative stress, an early and pervasive event in Alzheimer's disease, increased MDH activity and mRNA level of mdh2 by 19% and 22%, respectively, in a mouse hippocampal cell line (HT22). Post-transcriptional events underlie the change in mRNA because actinomycin D did not block the elevated mdh2 mRNA. Since miRNAs regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally, the expression of miR-743a, a miRNA predicted to target mdh2, was determined and showed a 52% reduction after oxidant treatment. Direct interaction of miR-743a with mdh2 was demonstrated with a luciferase based assay. Over-expression or inhibition of miR-743a led to a respective reduction or increase in endogenous mRNA and MDH activity. The results demonstrate that miR-743a negatively regulates mdh2 at post-transcriptional level by directly targeting the mdh2 3'UTR. The findings are consistent with the suggestion that oxidative stress can elevate the activity of MDH through miR-743a, and provide new insights into possible roles of miRNA in oxidative stress and neurodegeneration.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Animals;Brain Chemistry/physiology;Cell Line;Enzyme Activation/drug effects;Gene Targeting;Hippocampus/drug effects/enzymology;Hydrogen Peroxide/metabolism;Luciferases/metabolism;Malate Dehydrogenase/ biosynthesis/metabolism;Mice;Mice, 129 Strain;MicroRNAs/ pharmacology;Mitochondria/ enzymology;Oxidative Stress/ physiology;Protein Processing, Post-Translational/drug effects/genetics;Transfection;Up-Regulation
miR-381 Regulates Neural Stem Cell Proliferation and Differentiation via Regulating Hes1 Expression	X. Shi, et al.	2015	26431046	Neural stem cells are self-renewing, multipotent and undifferentiated precursors that retain the capacity for differentiation into both glial (astrocytes and oligodendrocytes) and neuronal lineages. Neural stem cells offer cell-based therapies for neurological disorders such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease and spinal cord injuries. However, their cellular behavior is poorly understood. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of small noncoding RNAs involved in cell development, proliferation and differentiation through regulating gene expression at post-transcriptional level. The role of miR-381 in the development of neural stem cells remains unknown. In this study, we showed that overexpression of miR-381 promoted neural stem cells proliferation. It induced the neural stem cells differentiation to neurons and inhibited their differentiation to astrocytes. Furthermore, we identified HES1 as a direct target of miR-381 in neural stem cells. Moreover, re-expression of HES1 impaired miR-381-induced promotion of neural stem cells proliferation and induce neural stem cells differentiation to neurons. In conclusion, miR-381 played important role in neural stem cells proliferation and differentiation.	Animals;Astrocytes/cytology;Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Transcription Factors/ genetics;Cell Differentiation/ genetics;Cell Proliferation/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation/ genetics;Homeodomain Proteins/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Neural Stem Cells/ cytology;Rats;Rats, Wistar;Transcription Factor HES-1
[Research progress in roles of microRNA in polyglutamine diseases]	Y. T. Shi, et al.	2010	20677146	Polyglutamine (Poly Q) diseases are a group of neurodegenerative disorders, caused by the formation of PolyQ mutants due to trinucleotide repeats expansion in coding regions of disease-causing genes, which eventually lead to selective neuronal degeneration and death with unclarified pathogenesis. As a new type of genetic regulatory factor, microRNA (miRNA) plays an important role in modulating gene expression in eukaryote. During the recent years, more attention was paid to roles and related mechanism of miRNA involving in neurodegenerative disease, especially PolyQ diseases. This review is focused on research progress in roles of miRNA in the pathogenesis of PolyQ diseases.	Eukaryota;MicroRNAs/genetics/ physiology;Nerve Degeneration;Neurodegenerative Diseases/ genetics;Peptides/ genetics;Trinucleotide Repeat Expansion/genetics;Trinucleotide Repeats/ genetics
Dicer ablation in oligodendrocytes provokes neuronal impairment in mice	D. Shin, et al.	2009	20035504	OBJECTIVE: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate gene expression and have many roles in the brain, but a role in oligodendrocyte (OL) function has not been demonstrated. METHODS: A Dicer floxed conditional allele was crossed with the proteolipid protein promoter-driven inducible Cre allele to generate inducible, OL-specific Dicer-floxed mice. RESULTS: OL-specific Dicer mutants show demyelination, oxidative damage, inflammatory astrocytosis and microgliosis in the brain, and eventually neuronal degeneration and shorter lifespan. miR-219 and its target ELOVL7 (elongation of very long chain fatty acids protein 7) were identified as the main molecular components that are involved in the development of the phenotype in these mice. Overexpressing ELOVL7 results in lipid accumulation, which is suppressed by miR-219 co-overexpression. In Dicer mutant brain, excess lipids accumulate in myelin-rich brain regions, and the peroxisomal beta-oxidation activity is dramatically reduced. INTERPRETATION: Postnatal Dicer ablation in mature OLs results in inflammatory neuronal degeneration through increased demyelination, lipid accumulation, and peroxisomal and oxidative damage, and therefore indicates that miRNAs play an essential role in the maintenance of lipids and redox homeostasis in mature OLs that are necessary for supporting axonal integrity as well as the formation of compact myelin.	Acetyltransferases/metabolism;Animals;Animals, Newborn;Antigens, Differentiation/metabolism;Antineoplastic Agents, Hormonal/pharmacology;Brain/ anatomy & histology;Cell Death/drug effects;Cell Differentiation/genetics;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/ deficiency;Electrophoresis, Gel, Two-Dimensional/methods;Endoribonucleases/ deficiency;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/genetics;Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein/metabolism;Gliosis/genetics;In Situ Nick-End Labeling/methods;Integrases/genetics;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Myelin Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Myelin Proteolipid Protein/genetics;Nerve Degeneration/genetics;Neurons/drug effects/ physiology;Oligodendroglia/ physiology;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Ribonuclease III;Tamoxifen/pharmacology;Toll-Like Receptor 2/metabolism
An age-related decline of CD62L and vaccine response: a role of microRNA 92a?	J. I. Shin and J. Bayry	2014	24401614	Aging process can affect T cell and antibody response to vaccination and an age-related decline in the expression of CD62L on CD8(+) T-lymphocyte is one of the important factors that contribute. A recent report demonstrated that percentage of CD3(+)CD8(+)CD62L(+) cells and CD8(+) T-lymphocyte microRNA-92a levels significantly decline with the age and were positively correlated. These results suggested that the age-related attrition of human naive T cells could be connected to a reduced microRNA-92a in T-lymphocytes and downregulation of the microRNA-92a level might indicate exhaustion of naive T-cells due to alteration of the immunologic condition with aging. Further studies are necessary to evaluate whether targeting microRNA-92a as microRNA mimics could be one of the therapeutic strategies in improving vaccine response in elderly.	Aging/ immunology;CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes/ immunology;CD8-Positive T-Lymphocytes/ immunology;Female;Hepatitis B Antibodies/ blood;Hepatitis B Surface Antigens/ immunology;Humans;L-Selectin/ physiology;Male;Cd62l;CD8+ T-lymphocyte;immunosenescence;microRNA 92a;vaccine response
miR-181a shows tumor suppressive effect against oral squamous cell carcinoma cells by downregulating K-ras	K. H. Shin, et al.	2011	21167132	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are epigenetic regulators of gene expression, and their deregulation plays an important role in human cancer, including oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). Recently, we found that miRNA-181a (miR-181a) was upregulated during replicative senescence of normal human oral keratinocytes. Since senescence is considered as a tumor suppressive mechanism, we thus investigated the expression and biological role of miR-181a in OSCC. We found that miR-181a was frequently downregulated in OSCC. Ectopic expression of miR-181a suppressed proliferation and anchorage independent growth ability of OSCC. Moreover, miR-181a dramatically reduces the growth of OSCC on three dimensional organotypic raft culture. We also identified K-ras as a novel target of miR-181a. miR-181a decreased K-ras protein level as well as the luciferase activity of reporter vectors containing the 3'-untranslated region of K-ras gene. Finally, we defined a minimal regulatory region of miR-181a and found a positive correlation between its promoter activity and the level of miR-181a expression. In conclusion, miR-181a may function as an OSCC suppressor by targeting on K-ras oncogene. Thus, miR-181a should be considered for therapeutic application for OSCC.	Base Sequence;Carcinoma, Squamous Cell/genetics/ pathology;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Genes, Tumor Suppressor/ physiology;Genes, ras;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ physiology;Mouth Neoplasms/genetics/ pathology;Promoter Regions, Genetic
Identification of senescence-inducing microRNAs in normal human keratinocytes	K. H. Shin, et al.	2011	21725593	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are epigenetic regulators of eukaryotic gene expression and play key roles in many cellular processes. However, the role of miRNAs for replicative senescence of normal human keratinocytes (NHKs) remains unknown. Thus, we examined the expression profiles of 847 miRNAs in exponentially replicating and senescent NHKs and identified 126 senescence-associated miRNAs (SA-miRs). Among SA-miRs, 117 miRNAs (93%) were upregulated and 9 miRNAs (7%) were downregulated in senescent NHKs compared to those of exponentially replicating cells. Among the above miRNAs, we selected two miRNAs, miR-137 and miR-668, for further investigation because they were consistently upregulated with replicative senescence of three independent NHK cultures. Ectopic overexpression of miR-137 or miR-668 induced senescence in rapidly proliferating NHKs; a notable increase in senescence-associated beta-galactosidase activity, p16INK4A and p53 was observed, indicating that they are novel senescence-inducing miRNAs. In addition, these senescence-inducing miRNAs were gradually increased during organismal aging of normal human oral epithelia. We also detected downregulation of miR-137 and miR-668 in many tested human head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cell lines. Since senescence would be viewed as a potent tumor suppressive pathway, the newly identified senescence-inducing miRNAs deserve to be further investigated for their therapeutic application in cancer treatment.	Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Keratinocytes/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics
Epigallocatechin Gallate-Mediated Alteration of the MicroRNA Expression Profile in 5alpha-Dihydrotestosterone-Treated Human Dermal Papilla Cells	S. Shin, et al.	2016	27274631	BACKGROUND: Dihydrotestosterone (DHT) induces androgenic alopecia by shortening the hair follicle growth phase, resulting in hair loss. We previously demonstrated how changes in the microRNA (miRNA) expression profile influenced DHT-mediated cell death, cell cycle arrest, cell viability, the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and senescence. Protective effects against DHT have not, however, been elucidated at the genome level. OBJECTIVE: We showed that epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), a major component of green tea, protects DHT-induced cell death by regulating the cellular miRNA expression profile. METHODS: We used a miRNA microarray to identify miRNA expression levels in human dermal papilla cells (DPCs). We investigated whether the miRNA expression influenced the protective effects of EGCG against DHT-induced cell death, growth arrest, intracellular ROS levels, and senescence. RESULTS: EGCG protected against the effects of DHT by altering the miRNA expression profile in human DPCs. In addition, EGCG attenuated DHT-mediated cell death and growth arrest and decreased intracellular ROS levels and senescence. A bioinformatics analysis elucidated the relationship between the altered miRNA expression and EGCG-mediated protective effects against DHT. CONCLUSION: Overall, our results suggest that EGCG ameliorates the negative effects of DHT by altering the miRNA expression profile in human DPCs.	Epigallocatechin gallate;Human dermal papilla cells;MicroRNAs
SnoN/SKIL modulates proliferation through control of hsa-miR-720 transcription in esophageal cancer cells	E. Shinozuka, et al.	2013	23154181	It is now evident that changes in microRNA are involved in cancer progression, but the mechanisms of transcriptional regulation of miRNAs remain unknown. Ski-related novel gene (SnoN/SKIL), a transcription co-factor, acts as a potential key regulator within a complex network of p53 transcriptional repressors. SnoN has pro- and anti-oncogenic functions in the regulation of cell proliferation, senescence, apoptosis, and differentiation. We characterized the roles of SnoN in miRNA transcriptional regulation and its effects on cell proliferation using esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) cells. Silencing of SnoN altered a set of miRNA expression profiles in TE-1cells, and the expression levels of miR-720, miR-1274A, and miR-1274B were modulated by SnoN. The expression of these miRNAs resulted in changes to the target protein p63 and a disintegrin and metalloproteinase domain 9 (ADAM9). Furthermore, silencing of SnoN significantly upregulated cell proliferation in TE-1 cells, indicating a potential anti-oncogenic function. These results support our observation that cancer tissues have lower expression levels of SnoN, miR-720, and miR-1274A compared to adjacent normal tissues from ESCC patients. These data demonstrate a novel mechanism of miRNA regulation, leading to changes in cell proliferation.	Carcinoma, Squamous Cell/genetics/ pathology;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Esophageal Neoplasms/genetics/ pathology;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Intracellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Proto-Oncogene Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics;Transcription, Genetic
Aberrant microRNA expression in the brains of neurodegenerative diseases: miR-29a decreased in Alzheimer disease brains targets neurone navigator 3	M. Shioya, et al.	2010	20202123	AIMS: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that regulate translational repression of target mRNAs. Accumulating evidence indicates that various miRNAs, expressed in a spatially and temporally controlled that manner in the brain plays a key role in neuronal development. However, at present, the pathological implication of aberrant miRNA expression in neurodegenerative events remains largely unknown. To identify miRNAs closely associated with neurodegeneration, we performed miRNA expression profiling of brain tissues of various neurodegenerative diseases. METHODS: We initially studied the frontal cortex derived from three amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients by using a microarray of 723 human miRNAs. This was followed by enlargement of study population with quantitative RT-PCR analysis (n = 21). RESULTS: By microarray analysis, we identified up-regulation of miR-29a, miR-29b and miR-338-3p in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis brains, but due to a great interindividual variation, we could not validate these results by quantitative RT-PCR. However, we found significant down-regulation of miR-29a in Alzheimer disease (AD) brains. The database search on TargetScan, PicTar and miRBase Target identified neurone navigator 3 (NAV3), a regulator of axon guidance, as a principal target of miR-29a, and actually NAV3 mRNA levels were elevated in AD brains. MiR-29a-mediated down-regulation of NAV3 was verified by the luciferase reporter assay. By immunohistochemistry, NAV3 expression was most evidently enhanced in degenerating pyramidal neurones in the cerebral cortex of AD. CONCLUSIONS: These observations suggest the hypothesis that underexpression of miR-29a affects neurodegenerative processes by enhancing neuronal NAV3 expression in AD brains.	Aged;Alzheimer Disease/genetics/metabolism;Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/genetics/metabolism;Brain/ metabolism;Female;Frontal Lobe/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;Membrane Proteins/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Neurodegenerative Diseases/genetics/ metabolism;Pyramidal Cells/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/metabolism
HCV core inhibits hepatocellular carcinoma cell replicative senescence through downregulating microRNA-138 expression	T. Y. Shiu, et al.	2017	28258280	Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a major cause of chronic hepatitis, liver cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). HCV core protein is considered as a positive regulator of telomerase activity. In this study, we focused on the deregulated microRNA-138 (miR-138) in HCV-associated HCC. Differential expression of miR-138 was determined by TaqMan quantitative real-time PCR. The target gene of miR-138 was verified by luciferase reporter assay, quantitative real-time PCR, and Western blotting. Moreover, three assays based on telomerase activity, cell proliferation, and senescence-associated beta-galactosidase activity were performed. The correlation analysis revealed a significantly negative correlation between miR-138 and telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) mRNA expression in HCC. Further, we showed that mature HCV core protein of 173 amino acids, but not full-length form of 191 amino acids, suppressed miR-138 expression. TERT was verified as a direct target of miR-138 in HCC cells. Furthermore, TERT-targeting miR-138 supplementation can prevent HCV core protein from repressing HCC cell replicative senescence. Collectively, HCV core protein can enhance TERT protein expression through downregulating TERT-targeting miR-138 expression, which in turn inhibits HCC cell replicative senescence. This study may further help our understanding on the pathogenic mechanisms of HCV core protein in HCV-associated HCC development. KEY MESSAGE: miR-138 is downregulated in HCV-associated HCC. Mature HCV core protein plays a pathogenic role in suppressing miR-138 expression. Telomerase reverse transcriptase represents a direct target of miR-138 in HCC cells. miR-138 promotes HCC cell senescence, suggesting potential for HCC treatment.	Hepatitis C virus;Hepatocellular carcinoma;MicroRNA;Telomerase reverse transcriptase
APP intracellular domain acts as a transcriptional regulator of miR-663 suppressing neuronal differentiation	R. Shu, et al.	2015	25695604	Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is best known for its involvement in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. We have previously demonstrated that APP intracellular domain (AICD) regulates neurogenesis; however, the mechanisms underlying AICD-mediated regulation of neuronal differentiation are not yet fully characterized. Using genome-wide chromatin immunoprecipitation approaches, we found that AICD is specifically recruited to the regulatory regions of several microRNA genes, and acts as a transcriptional regulator for miR-663, miR-3648 and miR-3687 in human neural stem cells. Functional assays show that AICD negatively modulates neuronal differentiation through miR-663, a primate-specific microRNA. Microarray data further demonstrate that miR-663 suppresses the expression of multiple genes implicated in neurogenesis, including FBXL18 and CDK6. Our results indicate that AICD has a novel role in suppression of neuronal differentiation via transcriptional regulation of miR-663 in human neural stem cells.	Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/genetics/ metabolism;Cell Differentiation/ genetics/physiology;Cell Line;Chromatin Immunoprecipitation;DNA-Binding Proteins/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neurons/ cytology/ metabolism;Protein Binding
Absent MicroRNAs in Different Tissues of Patients with Acquired Cardiomyopathy	C. S. Siegismund, et al.	2016	27475403	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) can be found in a wide range of tissues and body fluids, and their specific signatures can be used to determine diseases or predict clinical courses. The miRNA profiles in biological samples (tissue, serum, peripheral blood mononuclear cells or other body fluids) differ significantly even in the same patient and therefore have their own specificity for the presented condition. Complex profiles of deregulated miRNAs are of high interest, whereas the importance of non-expressed miRNAs was ignored. Since miRNAs regulate gene expression rather negatively, absent miRNAs could indicate genes with unaltered expression that therefore are normally expressed in specific compartments or under specific disease situations. For the first time, non-detectable miRNAs in different tissues and body fluids from patients with different diseases (cardiomyopathies, Alzheimer's disease, bladder cancer, and ocular cancer) were analyzed and compared in this study. miRNA expression data were generated by microarray or TaqMan PCR-based platforms. Lists of absent miRNAs of primarily cardiac patients (myocardium, blood cells, and serum) were clustered and analyzed for potentially involved pathways using two prediction platforms, i.e., miRNA enrichment analysis and annotation tool (miEAA) and DIANA miRPath. Extensive search in biomedical publication databases for the relevance of non-expressed miRNAs in predicted pathways revealed no evidence for their involvement in heart-related pathways as indicated by software tools, confirming proposed approach.	Algorithms;Cardiomyopathies/diagnosis/ genetics/pathology;Cerebrospinal Fluid/metabolism;Humans;Leukocytes, Mononuclear/cytology;MicroRNAs/blood/isolation & purification/ metabolism;Nucleic Acid Amplification Techniques;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Absent miRNAs;Cardiomyopathy;Heart muscle biopsy;Peripheral blood mononuclear cell;Serum
Human platelet microRNA-mRNA networks associated with age and gender revealed by integrated plateletomics	L. M. Simon, et al.	2014	24523238	There is little data considering relationships among human RNA, demographic variables, and primary human cell physiology. The platelet RNA and expression-1 study measured platelet aggregation to arachidonic acid, ADP, protease-activated receptor (PAR) 1 activation peptide (PAR1-AP), and PAR4-AP, as well as mRNA and microRNA (miRNA) levels in platelets from 84 white and 70 black healthy subjects. A total of 5911 uniquely mapped mRNAs and 181 miRNAs were commonly expressed and validated in a separate cohort. One hundred twenty-nine mRNAs and 15 miRNAs were differentially expressed (DE) by age, and targets of these miRNAs were over-represented among these mRNAs. Fifty-four mRNAs and 9 miRNAs were DE by gender. Networks of miRNAs targeting mRNAs, both DE by age and gender, were identified. The inverse relationship in these RNA pairs suggests miRNAs regulate mRNA levels on aging and between genders. A simple, interactive public web tool (www.plateletomics.com) was developed that permits queries of RNA levels and associations among RNA, platelet aggregation and demographic variables. Access to these data will facilitate discovery of mechanisms of miRNA regulation of gene expression. These results provide new insights into aging and gender, and future platelet RNA association studies must account for age and gender.	Adolescent;Adult;Age Factors;Blood Platelets/ metabolism;Female;Gene Regulatory Networks;Genomics/methods;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;RNA, Messenger/ genetics/metabolism;Sex Factors;Young Adult
In Vivo Effects of Mesenchymal Stromal Cells in Two Patients With Severe Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome	O. E. Simonson, et al.	2015	26285659	UNLABELLED: Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) have been investigated as a treatment for various inflammatory diseases because of their immunomodulatory and reparative properties. However, many basic questions concerning their mechanisms of action after systemic infusion remain unanswered. We performed a detailed analysis of the immunomodulatory properties and proteomic profile of MSCs systemically administered to two patients with severe refractory acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) on a compassionate use basis and attempted to correlate these with in vivo anti-inflammatory actions. Both patients received 2x10(6) cells per kilogram, and each subsequently improved with resolution of respiratory, hemodynamic, and multiorgan failure. In parallel, a decrease was seen in multiple pulmonary and systemic markers of inflammation, including epithelial apoptosis, alveolar-capillary fluid leakage, and proinflammatory cytokines, microRNAs, and chemokines. In vitro studies of the MSCs demonstrated a broad anti-inflammatory capacity, including suppression of T-cell responses and induction of regulatory phenotypes in T cells, monocytes, and neutrophils. Some of these in vitro potency assessments correlated with, and were relevant to, the observed in vivo actions. These experiences highlight both the mechanistic information that can be gained from clinical experience and the value of correlating in vitro potency assessments with clinical effects. The findings also suggest, but do not prove, a beneficial effect of lung protective strategies using adoptively transferred MSCs in ARDS. Appropriate randomized clinical trials are required to further assess any potential clinical efficacy and investigate the effects on in vivo inflammation. SIGNIFICANCE: This article describes the cases of two patients with severe refractory adult respiratory syndrome (ARDS) who failed to improve after both standard life support measures, including mechanical ventilation, and additional measures, including extracorporeal ventilation (i.e., in a heart-lung machine). Unlike acute forms of ARDS (such in the current NIH-sponsored study of mesenchymal stromal cells in ARDS), recovery does not generally occur in such patients.	Adult;Allografts;Catheterization, Central Venous;Cells, Cultured;Combined Modality Therapy;Compassionate Use Trials;Epithelium/pathology;Extracellular Vesicles;Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation;Histocompatibility;Humans;Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute/complications/therapy;Living Donors;Lung/pathology;Lymphocyte Culture Test, Mixed;Male;Mesenchymal Stem Cell Transplantation/methods;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/chemistry;MicroRNAs/blood;Middle Aged;Myeloid Cells/immunology;Proteome;Salvage Therapy;Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome/complications/ therapy;Acute respiratory distress syndrome;Bone marrow stromal cells;Cell transplantation;Cellular therapy;Clinical translation;Pulmonary diseases;Respiratory tract;Stem cells
Mitochondrial DNA Polymerase POLG1 Disease Mutations and Germline Variants Promote Tumorigenic Properties	B. Singh, et al.	2015	26468652	Germline mutations in mitochondrial DNA polymerase gamma (POLG1) induce mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations, depletion, and decrease oxidative phosphorylation. Earlier, we identified somatic mutations in POLG1 and the contribution of these mutations in human cancer. However, a role for germline variations in POLG1 in human cancers is unknown. In this study, we examined a role for disease associated germline variants of POLG1, POLG1 gene expression, copy number variation and regulation in human cancers. We analyzed the mutations, expression and copy number variation in POLG1 in several cancer databases and validated the analyses in primary breast tumors and breast cancer cell lines. We discovered 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine led epigenetic regulation of POLG1, mtDNA-encoded genes and increased mitochondrial respiration. We conducted comprehensive race based bioinformatics analyses of POLG1 gene in more than 33,000 European-Americans and 5,000 African-Americans. We identified a mitochondrial disease causing missense variation in polymerase domain of POLG1 protein at amino acid 1143 (E1143G) to be 25 times more prevalent in European-Americans (allele frequency 0.03777) when compared to African-American (allele frequency 0.00151) population. We identified T251I and P587L missense variations in exonuclease and linker region of POLG1 also to be more prevalent in European-Americans. Expression of these variants increased glucose consumption, decreased ATP production and increased matrigel invasion. Interestingly, conditional expression of these variants revealed that matrigel invasion properties conferred by these germline variants were reversible suggesting a role of epigenetic regulators. Indeed, we identified a set of miRNA whose expression was reversible after variant expression was turned off. Together, our studies demonstrate altered genetic and epigenetic regulation of POLG1 in human cancers and suggest a role for POLG1 germline variants in promoting tumorigenic properties.	Breast Neoplasms/genetics/metabolism;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Transformation, Neoplastic/ genetics;DNA Copy Number Variations;DNA-Directed DNA Polymerase/ genetics/metabolism;Epigenesis, Genetic;Female;Gene Expression;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Gene Frequency;Germ-Line Mutation;Humans;Mitochondria/genetics/metabolism;Mitochondrial Diseases/ complications/ genetics;Mutation;Neoplasms/ etiology
Aging-associated changes in microRNA expression profile of internal anal sphincter smooth muscle: Role of microRNA-133a	J. Singh, et al.	2016	27634012	A comprehensive genomic and proteomic, computational, and physiological approach was employed to examine the (previously unexplored) role of microRNAs (miRNAs) as regulators of internal anal sphincter (IAS) smooth muscle contractile phenotype and basal tone. miRNA profiling, genome-wide expression, validation, and network analyses were employed to assess changes in mRNA and miRNA expression in IAS smooth muscles from young vs. aging rats. Multiple miRNAs, including rno-miR-1, rno-miR-340-5p, rno-miR-185, rno-miR-199a-3p, rno-miR-200c, rno-miR-200b, rno-miR-31, rno-miR-133a, and rno-miR-206, were found to be upregulated in aging IAS. qPCR confirmed the upregulated expression of these miRNAs and downregulation of multiple, predicted targets (Eln, Col3a1, Col1a1, Zeb2, Myocd, Srf, Smad1, Smad2, Rhoa/Rock2, Fn1, Tagln v2, Klf4, and Acta2) involved in regulation of smooth muscle contractility. Subsequent studies demonstrated an aging-associated increase in the expression of miR-133a, corresponding decreases in RhoA, ROCK2, MYOCD, SRF, and SM22alpha protein expression, RhoA-signaling, and a decrease in basal and agonist [U-46619 (thromboxane A2 analog)]-induced increase in the IAS tone. Moreover, in vitro transfection of miR-133a caused a dose-dependent increase of IAS tone in strips, which was reversed by anti-miR-133a. Last, in vivo perianal injection of anti-miR-133a reversed the loss of IAS tone associated with age. This work establishes the important regulatory effect of miRNA-133a on basal and agonist-stimulated IAS tone. Moreover, reversal of age-associated loss of tone via anti-miR delivery strongly implicates miR dysregulation as a causal factor in the aging-associated decrease in IAS tone and suggests that miR-133a is a feasible therapeutic target in aging-associated rectoanal incontinence.	Aging/genetics/ metabolism;Anal Canal/ metabolism;Animals;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Muscle Contraction/physiology;Muscle, Smooth/ metabolism;Rats;Rats, Inbred F344;Signal Transduction/physiology;RhoA/ROCK downregulation;aging-associated changes;microRNA-133a;rectoanal incontinence
Dysregulated A to I RNA editing and non-coding RNAs in neurodegeneration	M. Singh	2012	23346095	RNA editing is an alteration in the primary nucleotide sequences resulting from a chemical change in the base. RNA editing is observed in eukaryotic mRNA, transfer RNA, ribosomal RNA, and non-coding RNAs (ncRNA). The most common RNA editing in the mammalian central nervous system is a base modification, where the adenosine residue is base-modified to inosine (A to I). Studies from ADAR (adenosine deaminase that act on RNA) mutants in Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila, and mice clearly show that the RNA editing process is an absolute requirement for nervous system homeostasis and normal physiology of the animal. Understanding the mechanisms of editing and findings of edited substrates has provided a better knowledge of the phenotype due to defective and hyperactive RNA editing. A to I RNA editing is catalyzed by a family of enzymes knows as ADARs. ADARs modify duplex RNAs and editing of duplex RNAs formed by ncRNAs can impact RNA functions, leading to an altered regulatory gene network. Such altered functions by A to I editing is observed in mRNAs, microRNAs (miRNA) but other editing of small and long ncRNAs (lncRNAs) has yet to be identified. Thus, ncRNA and RNA editing may provide key links between neural development, nervous system function, and neurological diseases. This review includes a summary of seminal findings regarding the impact of ncRNAs on biological and pathological processes, which may be further modified by RNA editing. NcRNAs are non-translated RNAs classified by size and function. Known ncRNAs like miRNAs, smallRNAs (smRNAs), PIWI-interacting RNAs (piRNAs), and lncRNAs play important roles in splicing, DNA methylation, imprinting, and RNA interference. Of note, miRNAs are involved in development and function of the nervous system that is heavily dependent on both RNA editing and the intricate spatiotemporal expression of ncRNAs. This review focuses on the impact of dysregulated A to I editing and ncRNAs in neurodegeneration.	ADARs;RNA editing;long non-coding RNA;microRNAs;non-coding RNAs;snoRNAs
The rice OsSAG12-2 gene codes for a functional protease that negatively regulates stress-induced cell death	S. Singh, et al.	2016	27581936	Senescence is the final stage of plant development. Although expression of most of the genes is suppressed during senescence, a set of genes referred as senescence-associated genes (SAGs) is induced. Arabidopsis thaliana SAG12 (AtSAG12) is one such gene that has been mostly studied for its strict association with senescence. AtSAG12 encodes a papain-like cysteine protease, expressed predominantly in senescence-associated vacuoles. Rice genome contains multiple AtSAG12 homologues (OsSAGs). OsSAG12-1, the closest structural homologue of AtSAG12, is a negative regulator of developmental and stress-induced cell death. Proteolytic activity has not been established for any SAG12 homologues in vitro. Here, we report that OsSAG12-2, the second structural homologue of AtSAG12 from rice, codes for a functional proteolytic enzyme. The recombinant OsSAG12-2 protein produced in Escherichia coli undergoes autolysis to generate a functional protease. The matured OsSAG12-2 protein shows 27 percent trypsin-equivalent proteolytic activity on azocasein substrate. Dark-induced senescence activates OsSAG12-2 expression. Down-regulation of OsSAG12-2 in the transgenic artificial miRNA lines results in enhanced salt- and UV-induced cell death, even though it does not affect cell viability in the stress-free condition. Our results show that OsSAG12-2 codes for a functional protease that negatively regulates stress-induced cell death in rice.	Aging/genetics;Arabidopsis/genetics;Arabidopsis Proteins/biosynthesis/ genetics;Cell Death/drug effects/radiation effects;Cysteine Endopeptidases/biosynthesis/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Plant/drug effects/radiation effects;Oryza/drug effects/ genetics/growth & development;Plant Leaves/genetics/growth & development;Plants, Genetically Modified/drug effects/ genetics/growth & development;Sodium Chloride/toxicity;Stress, Physiological/drug effects/ genetics/radiation effects;Ultraviolet Rays
FOXO1 regulates expression of a microRNA cluster on X chromosome	R. Singhal, et al.	2013	23748164	Phosphoinositol-3-kinase (PI3K) pathway is a crucial modulator of many physiological and pathophysiological phenomena, including aging, diabetes and cancer. Protein kinase Akt, a downstream effector of PI3K, controls a plethora of cellular functions, including gene transcription. A key mechanism connecting Akt activity to changes in gene expression is inhibitory phosphorylation of FOXO family of transcription factors. Accordingly, altered expression of FOXO targets may account for many biological consequences of PI3K/Akt signaling. While the previous efforts focused on FOXO-dependent regulation of protein-coding genes, non-coding RNA genes have emerged as equally important targets of many transcription factors. Therefore, we utilized a regulated form of FOXO1 to profile FOXO1-dependent changes in miRNA expression in human cells. Both microarray hybridization and next-generation sequencing revealed changes in the products of a miRNA cluster on X chromosome. Rapid induction of these miRNAs occurred independently of de novo protein synthesis. Furthermore, inhibition of PI3K in cancer cell lines caused derepression of these miRNAs, as would be expected for FOXO-regulated genes. Members of the major oncogenic cascades are significantly overrepresented among the predicted targets of the miRNAs, consistent with tumor-suppressive role of FOXO1. The discovered miRNAs represent new candidate mediators of FOXO1 functions and possible biomarkers of its activity.	Chromosomes, Human, X/ genetics;Forkhead Box Protein O1;Forkhead Transcription Factors/genetics/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;HEK293 Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Transcriptome
A functional genomic screen for evolutionarily conserved genes required for lifespan and immunity in germline-deficient C. elegans	A. Sinha and R. Rae	2014	25093668	The reproductive system regulates lifespan in insects, nematodes and vertebrates. In Caenorhabditis elegans removal of germline increases lifespan by 60% which is dependent upon insulin signaling, nuclear hormone signaling, autophagy and fat metabolism and their microRNA-regulators. Germline-deficient C. elegans are also more resistant to various bacterial pathogens but the underlying molecular mechanisms are largely unknown. Firstly, we demonstrate that previously identified genes that regulate the extended lifespan of germline-deficient C. elegans (daf-2, daf-16, daf-12, tcer-1, mir-7.1 and nhr-80) are also essential for resistance to the pathogenic bacterium Xenorhabdus nematophila. We then use a novel unbiased approach combining laser cell ablation, whole genome microarrays, RNAi screening and exposure to X. nematophila to generate a comprehensive genome-wide catalog of genes potentially required for increased lifespan and innate immunity in germline-deficient C. elegans. We find 3,440 genes to be upregulated in C. elegans germline-deficient animals in a gonad dependent manner, which are significantly enriched for genes involved in insulin signaling, fatty acid desaturation, translation elongation and proteasome complex function. Using RNAi against a subset of 150 candidate genes selected from the microarray results, we show that the upregulated genes such as transcription factor DAF-16/FOXO, the PTEN homolog lipid phosphatase DAF-18 and several components of the proteasome complex (rpn-6.1, rpn-7, rpn-9, rpn-10, rpt-6, pbs-3 and pbs-6) are essential for both lifespan and immunity of germline deficient animals. We also identify a novel role for genes including par-5 and T12G3.6 in both lifespan-extension and increased survival on X. nematophila. From an evolutionary perspective, most of the genes differentially expressed in germline deficient C. elegans also show a conserved expression pattern in germline deficient Pristionchus pacificus, a nematode species that diverged from C. elegans 250-400 MYA.	Animals;Animals, Genetically Modified;Caenorhabditis elegans/genetics/growth & development/immunology;Castration;Conserved Sequence;Evolution, Molecular;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Genome, Helminth;Germ Cells;Immunity/ genetics;Longevity/ genetics;Microarray Analysis;Nematoda/genetics/growth & development/immunology;Reproduction, Asexual/genetics;Sequence Analysis, DNA;Xenorhabdus/immunology
Altered microRNAs in STHdh(Q111)/Hdh(Q111) cells: miR-146a targets TBP	M. Sinha, et al.	2010	20451497	We studied expression of 90 miRNAs in STHdh(Q111)/Hdh(Q111) cells, a model for Huntington's disease and compared with that obtained in STHdh(Q7)/Hdh(Q7) cells. Fifteen miRNAs were down regulated and 12 miRNAs were up regulated more than 2-fold. Such changes were statistically significant. One hundred and forty-two genes are experimentally known targets of these altered miRNAs. It has been predicted that miR-146a may target Tata Binding Protein (TBP). Using luciferase reporter assays with 3'-UTRs of TBP, over-expression and inhibition of miR-146a, we showed that miR-146a targets TBP. Regulation of TBP by miR-146a may contribute to HD pathogenesis.	Animals;Cell Line;Gene Expression Regulation;Genes, Reporter;Humans;Huntingtin Protein;Huntington Disease/ genetics;Luciferases/genetics;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics;Nuclear Proteins/genetics;TATA-Box Binding Protein/ genetics
Dual role of miR-21 in CD4+ T-cells: activation-induced miR-21 supports survival of memory T-cells and regulates CCR7 expression in naive T-cells	K. Smigielska-Czepiel, et al.	2013	24098447	Immune cell-type specific miRNA expression patterns have been described but the detailed role of single miRNAs in the function of T-cells remains largely unknown. We investigated the role of miR-21 in the function of primary human CD4+ T-cells. MiR-21 is substantially expressed in T-cells with a memory phenotype, and is robustly upregulated upon alphaCD3/CD28 activation of both naive and memory T-cells. By inhibiting the endogenous miR-21 function in activated naive and memory T-cells, we showed that miR-21 regulates fundamentally different aspects of T-cell biology, depending on the differentiation status of the T-cell. Stable inhibition of miR-21 function in activated memory T-cells led to growth disadvantage and apoptosis, indicating that the survival of memory T-cells depends on miR-21 function. In contrast, stable inhibition of miR-21 function in activated naive T-cells did not result in growth disadvantage, but led to a significant induction of CCR7 protein expression. Direct interaction between CCR7 and miR-21 was confirmed in a dual luciferase reporter assay. Our data provide evidence for a dual role of miR-21 in CD4+ T cells; Regulation of T-cell survival is confined to activated memory T-cells, while modulation of potential homing properties, through downregulation of CCR7 protein expression, is observed in activated naive T-cells.	Animals;Antigens, CD28/metabolism;Antigens, CD3/metabolism;CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes/ immunology/ metabolism;Cell Line;Cell Survival/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Immunologic Memory;Lymphocyte Activation/genetics/immunology;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Phenotype;Receptors, CCR7/genetics/metabolism;Transcriptional Activation
Comprehensive analysis of miRNA expression in T-cell subsets of rheumatoid arthritis patients reveals defined signatures of naive and memory Tregs	K. Smigielska-Czepiel, et al.	2014	24401767	Disturbed expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) in regulatory T cells (Tregs) leads to development of autoimmunity in experimental mouse models. However, the miRNA expression signature characterizing Tregs of autoimmune diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis (RA) has not been determined yet. In this study, we have used a microarray approach to comprehensively analyze miRNA expression signatures of both naive Tregs (CD4+CD45RO-CD25++) and memory Tregs (CD4+CD45RO+CD25+++), as well as conventional naive (CD4+CD45RO-CD25-) and memory (CD4+CD45RO+CD25-) T cells (Tconvs) derived from peripheral blood of RA patients and matched healthy controls. Differential expression of selected miRNAs was validated by TaqMan-based quantitative reverse transcription-PCR. We found a positive correlation between increased expression of miR-451 in T cells of RA patients and disease activity score (DAS28), erythrocyte sedimentation rate levels and serum levels of interleukin-6. Moreover, we found characteristic, disease- and treatment-independent, global miRNA expression signatures defining naive Tregs, memory Tregs, naive Tconvs and memory Tconvs. The analysis allowed us to define miRNAs characteristic for a general naive phenotype (for example, miR-92a) and a general memory phenotype (for example, miR-21, miR-155). Importantly, the analysis allowed us to define miRNAs that are specifically expressed in both naive and memory Tregs, defining as such miRNA signature characterizing the Treg phenotype (that is, miR-146a, miR-3162, miR-1202, miR-1246 and miR-4281).	Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Anti-Inflammatory Agents, Non-Steroidal/therapeutic use;Antigens, CD4/genetics;Antigens, CD45/genetics;Arthritis, Rheumatoid/drug therapy/ genetics;Blood Sedimentation;Female;Humans;Interleukin-2 Receptor alpha Subunit/genetics;Interleukin-6/blood;Male;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;Middle Aged;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Synovial Fluid/cytology/immunology;T-Lymphocytes, Regulatory/ immunology
Age-related loss of hepatic Nrf2 protein homeostasis: Potential role for heightened expression of miR-146a	E. J. Smith, et al.	2015	26549877	Nrf2 regulates the expression of numerous anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory, and metabolic genes. We observed that, paradoxically, Nrf2 protein levels decline in the livers of aged rats despite the inflammatory environment evident in that organ. To examine the cause(s) of this loss, we investigated the age-related changes in Nrf2 protein homeostasis and activation in cultured hepatocytes from young (4-6 months) and old (24-28 months) Fischer 344 rats. While no age-dependent change in Nrf2 mRNA levels was observed (p>0.05), Nrf2 protein content, and the basal and anetholetrithione (A3T)-induced expression of Nrf2-dependent genes were attenuated with age. Conversely, overexpression of Nrf2 in cells from old animals reinstated gene induction. Treatment with A3T, along with bortezomib to inhibit degradation of existing protein, caused Nrf2 to accumulate significantly in cells from young animals (p<0.05), but not old, indicating a lack of new Nrf2 synthesis. We hypothesized that the loss of Nrf2 protein synthesis with age may partly stem from an age-related increase in microRNA inhibition of Nrf2 translation. Microarray analysis revealed that six microRNAs significantly increase >2-fold with age (p<0.05). One of these, miRNA-146a, is predicted to bind Nrf2 mRNA. Transfection of hepatocytes from young rats with a miRNA-146a mimic caused a 55% attenuation of Nrf2 translation that paralleled the age-related loss of Nrf2. Overall, these results provide novel insights for the age-related decline in Nrf2 and identify new targets to maintain Nrf2-dependent detoxification with age.	Aging/ physiology;Animals;Cells, Cultured;Hepatocytes/cytology/ metabolism;Homeostasis/ genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;NF-E2-Related Factor 2/genetics/ metabolism;Protein Biosynthesis/ genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Rats;Rats, Inbred F344;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Aging;Antioxidant response element;MicroRNA;Nrf2;Translation
In vivo regulation of amyloid precursor protein neuronal splicing by microRNAs	P. Smith, et al.	2011	21062284	The beta-amyloid peptide that accumulate in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain derive from proteolytic processing of the amyloid precursor protein (APP). Recent evidence suggest that microRNAs (miRNAs) participate in the post-transcriptional regulation of APP expression. Because gene dosage effects of the APP gene can cause genetic AD, dysregulation of the miRNA network could contribute significantly to disease. Here, we present evidence that, besides APP expression regulation, miRNAs are equally involved in the regulation of neuronal APP mRNA alternative splicing. Lack of miRNAs in post-mitotic neurons in vivo is associated with APP exons 7 and 8 inclusion, while ectopic expression of miR-124, an abundant neuronal-specific miRNA, reversed these effects in cultured neurons. Similar results were obtained by depletion of endogenous polypyrimidine tract binding protein 1 (PTBP1) in cells, a recognized miR-124 target gene. Furthermore, PTBP1 levels correlate with the presence of APP exons 7 and 8, while PTBP2 levels correlate with the skipping of these exons during neuronal differentiation. Finally, we show that miR-124 is down-regulated in AD brain. In sum, our results suggest that specific miRNAs are involved in the fine-tuning of APP alternative splicing in neurons. Since abnormal neuronal splicing of APP affects beta-amyloid peptide production, these results could contribute to the understanding of the implication of miRNAs in brain health and disease.	Alternative Splicing/ genetics;Alzheimer Disease/genetics/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/genetics/ physiology;Animals;Brain Chemistry/ genetics;Cells, Cultured;Exons/physiology;Humans;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/genetics/ physiology;Neurons/metabolism/ physiology
miR-132/212 deficiency impairs tau metabolism and promotes pathological aggregation in vivo	P. Y. Smith, et al.	2015	26362250	Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related tauopathies comprise a large group of neurodegenerative diseases associated with the pathological aggregation of tau protein. While much effort has focused on understanding the function of tau, little is known about the endogenous mechanisms regulating tau metabolism in vivo and how these contribute to disease. Previously, we have shown that the microRNA (miRNA) cluster miR-132/212 is downregulated in tauopathies such as AD. Here, we report that miR-132/212 deficiency in mice leads to increased tau expression, phosphorylation and aggregation. Using reporter assays and cell-based studies, we demonstrate that miR-132 directly targets tau mRNA to regulate its expression. We identified GSK-3beta and PP2B as effectors of abnormal tau phosphorylation in vivo. Deletion of miR-132/212 induced tau aggregation in mice expressing endogenous or human mutant tau, an effect associated with autophagy dysfunction. Conversely, treatment of AD mice with miR-132 mimics restored in part memory function and tau metabolism. Finally, miR-132 and miR-212 levels correlated with insoluble tau and cognitive impairment in humans. These findings support a role for miR-132/212 in the regulation of tau pathology in mice and humans and provide new alternatives for therapeutic development.	Animals;Cognition Disorders/genetics/metabolism/physiopathology;Disease Models, Animal;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Regulation;Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3/metabolism;Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3 beta;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Phosphorylation;Protein Aggregation, Pathological/ genetics;Tauopathies/ metabolism/physiopathology;tau Proteins/genetics/ metabolism
MicroRNAs mediate dietary-restriction-induced longevity through PHA-4/FOXA and SKN-1/Nrf transcription factors	T. Smith-Vikos, et al.	2014	25242029	BACKGROUND: Dietary restriction (DR) has been shown to prolong longevity across diverse taxa, yet the mechanistic relationship between DR and longevity remains unclear. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) control aging-related functions such as metabolism and lifespan through regulation of genes in insulin signaling, mitochondrial respiration, and protein homeostasis. RESULTS: We have conducted a network analysis of aging-associated miRNAs connected to transcription factors PHA-4/FOXA and SKN-1/Nrf, which are both necessary for DR-induced lifespan extension in Caenorhabditis elegans. Our network analysis has revealed extensive regulatory interactions between PHA-4, SKN-1, and miRNAs and points to two aging-associated miRNAs, miR-71 and miR-228, as key nodes of this network. We show that miR-71 and miR-228 are critical for the response to DR in C. elegans. DR induces the expression of miR-71 and miR-228, and the regulation of these miRNAs depends on PHA-4 and SKN-1. In turn, we show that PHA-4 and SKN-1 are negatively regulated by miR-228, whereas miR-71 represses PHA-4. CONCLUSIONS: Based on our findings, we have discovered new links in an important pathway connecting DR to aging. By interacting with PHA-4 and SKN-1, miRNAs transduce the effect of dietary-restriction-mediated lifespan extension in C. elegans. Given the conservation of miRNAs, PHA-4, and SKN-1 across phylogeny, these interactions are likely to be conserved in more-complex species.	Aging;Animals;Caenorhabditis elegans/genetics/ physiology;Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;DNA-Binding Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Polymerase Chain Reaction;Trans-Activators/ genetics/metabolism;Transcription Factors/ genetics/metabolism
A serum miRNA profile of human longevity: findings from the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging (BLSA)	T. Smith-Vikos, et al.	2016	27824314	In C. elegans, miRNAs are genetic biomarkers of aging. Similarly, multiple miRNAs are differentially expressed between younger and older persons, suggesting that miRNA-regulated biological mechanisms affecting aging are evolutionarily conserved. Previous human studies have not considered participants' lifespans, a key factor in identifying biomarkers of aging. Using PCR arrays, we measured miRNA levels from serum samples obtained longitudinally at ages 50, 55, and 60 from 16 non-Hispanic males who had documented lifespans from 58 to 92. Numerous miRNAs showed significant changes in expression levels. At age 50, 24 miRNAs were significantly upregulated, and 73 were significantly downregulated in the long-lived subgroup (76-92 years) as compared with the short-lived subgroup (58-75 years). In long-lived participants, the most upregulated was miR-373-5p, while the most downregulated was miR-15b-5p. Longitudinally, significant Pearson correlations were observed between lifespan and expression of nine miRNAs (p value<0.05). Six of these nine miRNAs (miR-211-5p, 374a-5p, 340-3p, 376c-3p, 5095, 1225-3p) were also significantly up- or downregulated when comparing long-lived and short-lived participants. Twenty-four validated targets of these miRNAs encoded aging-associated proteins, including PARP1, IGF1R, and IGF2R. We propose that the expression profiles of the six miRNAs (miR-211-5p, 374a-5p, 340-3p, 376c-3p, 5095, and 1225-3p) may be useful biomarkers of aging.	aging;biomarker;long-lived;longitudinal study;miRNA;short-lived
MicroRNAs circulate around Alzheimer's disease	T. Smith-Vikos and F. J. Slack	2013	23889814	A select group of microRNAs identified in blood samples can differentiate between Alzheimer's disease, other neurological disorders and age-matched healthy controls with high accuracy.	Alzheimer Disease/ blood/ genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;MicroRNAs/ blood/ genetics
Age-dependent increase in miRNA-34a expression in the posterior pole of the mouse eye	Z. Smit-McBride, et al.	2014	25489229	PURPOSE: MicroRNA-34a (miR-34a) has been implicated in neurodegeneration. MiR-34a belongs to a signaling network involving p53 and Sirt-1. This network responds to DNA damage with further downstream signals that induce senescence or apoptosis. Our goal was to measure the expression level of miR-34a in the mouse retina and RPE as a function of age. METHODS: The age-dependent change in miR-34a expression was quantified using a real-time PCR (RT-PCR) assay on microRNA isolates from eye tissue: the retina and RPE/choroid (4, 18, 24, and 32 months of age). Tissue localization of miR-34a was determined by in situ hybridization (ISH) for a series of time points. Expression of the miR-34a target gene Sirt1 was analyzed using RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry. RESULTS: MiR-34a examined with real-time PCR showed a linear increase in expression with age when compared to that of 4-month-old mice. However, the level of expression between the 24 and 32-month-old animals showed mild downregulation. An age-related increase in miR-34a expression was confirmed in the mouse eye using in situ hybridization. An inverse relationship between the levels of expression of miR-34a and its target Sirt1 mRNA was found at 18 and 24 months of age. CONCLUSIONS: Our data showed that miR-34a expression increased in the retina and RPE with age. The level of DNA damage in mitochondria in the retina and RPE followed a similar time course. This suggests that miR-34a may play a role in the senescence and apoptosis of the retina and RPE cells in the aging eye.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Choroid/growth & development/ metabolism;DNA Damage;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Mitochondria/metabolism;Retinal Pigment Epithelium/growth & development/ metabolism;Sirtuin 1/genetics/metabolism
DNA methyltransferase controls stem cell aging by regulating BMI1 and EZH2 through microRNAs	A. Y. So, et al.	2011	21572997	Epigenetic regulation of gene expression is well known mechanism that regulates cellular senescence of cancer cells. Here we show that inhibition of DNA methyltransferases (DNMTs) with 5-azacytidine (5-AzaC) or with specific small interfering RNA (siRNA) against DNMT1 and 3b induced the cellular senescence of human umbilical cord blood-derived multipotent stem cells (hUCB-MSCs) and increased p16(INK4A) and p21(CIP1/WAF1) expression. DNMT inhibition changed histone marks into the active forms and decreased the methylation of CpG islands in the p16(INK4A) and p21(CIP1/WAF1) promoter regions. Enrichment of EZH2, the key factor that methylates histone H3 lysine 9 and 27 residues, was decreased on the p16(INK4A) and p21(CIP1/WAF1) promoter regions. We found that DNMT inhibition decreased expression levels of Polycomb-group (PcG) proteins and increased expression of microRNAs (miRNAs), which target PcG proteins. Decreased CpG island methylation and increased levels of active histone marks at genomic regions encoding miRNAs were observed after 5-AzaC treatment. Taken together, DNMTs have a critical role in regulating the cellular senescence of hUCB-MSCs through controlling not only the DNA methylation status but also active/inactive histone marks at genomic regions of PcG-targeting miRNAs and p16(INK4A) and p21(CIP1/WAF1) promoter regions.	Azacitidine/pharmacology;Blotting, Western;Cell Aging/drug effects/ genetics;Cell Cycle/drug effects/genetics;Cell Proliferation/drug effects;Cells, Cultured;Chromatin Immunoprecipitation;CpG Islands/genetics;DNA (Cytosine-5-)-Methyltransferase/antagonists & inhibitors/ metabolism;DNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2 Protein;Enzyme Inhibitors/pharmacology;Flow Cytometry;Humans;Immunohistochemistry;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Multipotent Stem Cells/cytology/metabolism;Nuclear Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Polycomb Repressive Complex 1;Polycomb Repressive Complex 2;Proto-Oncogene Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Repressor Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Transcription Factors/genetics/ metabolism
Involvement of microRNAs in the regulation of muscle wasting during catabolic conditions	R. J. Soares, et al.	2014	24891504	Loss of muscle proteins and the consequent weakness has important clinical consequences in diseases such as cancer, diabetes, chronic heart failure, and in aging. In fact, excessive proteolysis causes cachexia, accelerates disease progression, and worsens life expectancy. Muscle atrophy involves a common pattern of transcriptional changes in a small subset of genes named atrophy-related genes or atrogenes. Whether microRNAs play a role in the atrophy program and muscle loss is debated. To understand the involvement of miRNAs in atrophy we performed miRNA expression profiling of mouse muscles under wasting conditions such as fasting, denervation, diabetes, and cancer cachexia. We found that the miRNA signature is peculiar of each catabolic condition. We then focused on denervation and we revealed that changes in transcripts and microRNAs expression did not occur simultaneously but were shifted. Indeed, whereas transcriptional control of the atrophy-related genes peaks at 3 days, changes of miRNA expression maximized at 7 days after denervation. Among the different miRNAs, microRNA-206 and -21 were the most induced in denervated muscles. We characterized their pattern of expression and defined their role in muscle homeostasis. Indeed, in vivo gain and loss of function experiments revealed that miRNA-206 and miRNA-21 were sufficient and required for atrophy program. In silico and in vivo approaches identified transcription factor YY1 and the translational initiator factor eIF4E3 as downstream targets of these miRNAs. Thus miRNAs are important for fine-tuning the atrophy program and their modulation can be a novel potential therapeutic approach to counteract muscle loss and weakness in catabolic conditions.	3' Untranslated Regions;Animals;Base Sequence;Cachexia/genetics/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Eukaryotic Initiation Factor-4E/genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Muscle Denervation;Muscle, Skeletal/innervation/metabolism;Muscular Atrophy/ etiology/ genetics/metabolism;Starvation/genetics/metabolism;Time Factors;YY1 Transcription Factor/genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression;MicroRNA (miRNA);Muscle;Muscle Atrophy;Pathology;Protein Degradation;Signal Transduction;Skeletal Muscle;Transcription
miR-30e controls DNA damage-induced stress responses by modulating expression of the CDK inhibitor p21WAF1/CIP1 and caspase-3	D. Sohn, et al.	2016	26895377	MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a class of small non-coding RNAs that usually cause gene silencing by translational repression or degradation of mRNAs, are implicated in DNA damage-induced stress responses. To identify senescence-associated miRNAs, we performed microarray analyses using wild-type and p53-deficient HCT116 colon carcinoma cells that following gamma-irradiation (gammaIR) are driven into senescence and apoptosis, respectively. Several miRNAs including miR-30e were found upregulated in a p53-dependent manner specifically in senescent cells, but not in apoptotic cells. Overexpression of miR-30e in HCT116 cells not only inhibited gammaIR-, etoposide- or miR-34a-induced caspase-3-like DEVDase activities and cell death, but greatly accelerated and augmented their senescent phenotype. Consistently, procaspase-3 protein, but not mRNA decreased in the presence of miR-30e, whereas expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21 increased both at the mRNA and protein level. Performing luciferase reporter gene assays, we identified the 3'-UTR of the caspase-3 mRNA as a direct miR-30e target. In contrast, although miR-30e was unable to bind to the p21 mRNA, it increased expression of a luciferase construct containing the p21 promoter, suggesting that the miR-30e-mediated upregulation of p21 occurs indirectly at the transcriptional level. Interestingly, despite suppressing procaspase-3 expression, miR-30e was unable to protect RKO colon carcinoma cells from DNA damage-induced death or to induce senescence, as miR-30e completely fails to upregulate p21 in these cells. These data suggest that miR-30e functions in a cell type-dependent manner as an important molecular switch for DNA damage-induced stress responses and may thus represent a target of therapeutic value.	apoptosis;caspase-3;microRNA-30e;p21;senescence
Macrophages, nitric oxide and microRNAs are associated with DNA damage response pathway and senescence in inflammatory bowel disease	J. J. Sohn, et al.	2012	22970173	BACKGROUND: Cellular senescence can be a functional barrier to carcinogenesis. We hypothesized that inflammation modulates carcinogenesis through senescence and DNA damage response (DDR). We examined the association between senescence and DDR with macrophage levels in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). In vitro experiments tested the ability of macrophages to induce senescence in primary cells. Inflammation modulating microRNAs were identified in senescence colon tissue for further investigation. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Quantitative immunohistochemistry identified protein expression by colon cell type. Increased cellular senescence (HP1gamma; P = 0.01) or DDR (gammaH2A.X; P = 0.031, phospho-Chk2, P = 0.014) was associated with high macrophage infiltration in UC. Co-culture with macrophages (ANA-1) induced senescence in >80% of primary cells (fibroblasts MRC5, WI38), illustrating that macrophages induce senescence. Interestingly, macrophage-induced senescence was partly dependent on nitric oxide synthase, and clinically relevant NO* levels alone induced senescence. NO* induced DDR in vitro, as detected by immunofluorescence. In contrast to UC, we noted in Crohn's disease (CD) that senescence (HP1gamma; P<0.001) and DDR (gammaH2A.X; P<0.05, phospho-Chk2; P<0.001) were higher, and macrophages were not associated with senescence. We hypothesize that nitric oxide may modulate senescence in CD; epithelial cells of CD had higher levels of NOS2 expression than in UC (P = 0.001). Microarrays and quantitative-PCR identified miR-21 expression associated with macrophage infiltration and NOS2 expression. CONCLUSIONS: Senescence was observed in IBD with senescence-associated beta-galactosidase and HP1gamma. Macrophages were associated with senescence and DDR in UC, and in vitro experiments with primary human cells showed that macrophages induce senescence, partly through NO*, and that NO* can induce DDR associated with senescence. Future experiments will investigate the role of NO* and miR-21 in senescence. This is the first study to implicate macrophages and nitrosative stress in a direct effect on senescence and DDR, which is relevant to many diseases of inflammation, cancer, and aging.	Animals;Antigens, CD/metabolism;Antigens, Differentiation, Myelomonocytic/metabolism;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cells, Cultured;Checkpoint Kinase 2;Chromosomal Proteins, Non-Histone/metabolism;Colitis, Ulcerative/enzymology/genetics/pathology;Colon/enzymology/pathology;Crohn Disease/enzymology/genetics/pathology;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/metabolism;DNA Damage/ genetics;Epithelial Cells/metabolism/pathology;Fibroblasts/metabolism/pathology;Histones/metabolism;Humans;Inflammatory Bowel Diseases/enzymology/ genetics/ pathology;Macrophages/ metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Nitric Oxide/ metabolism;Nitric Oxide Synthase Type II/metabolism;Phosphorylation;Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases/metabolism;Signal Transduction/genetics;Up-Regulation/genetics
Identification of genes potentially regulated by human polynucleotide phosphorylase (hPNPase old-35) using melanoma as a model	U. K. Sokhi, et al.	2013	24143183	Human Polynucleotide Phosphorylase (hPNPase(old-35) or PNPT1) is an evolutionarily conserved 3'--> 5' exoribonuclease implicated in the regulation of numerous physiological processes including maintenance of mitochondrial homeostasis, mtRNA import and aging-associated inflammation. From an RNase perspective, little is known about the RNA or miRNA species it targets for degradation or whose expression it regulates; except for c-myc and miR-221. To further elucidate the functional implications of hPNPase(old-35) in cellular physiology, we knocked-down and overexpressed hPNPase(old-35) in human melanoma cells and performed gene expression analyses to identify differentially expressed transcripts. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis indicated that knockdown of hPNPase(old-35) resulted in significant gene expression changes associated with mitochondrial dysfunction and cholesterol biosynthesis; whereas overexpression of hPNPase(old-35) caused global changes in cell-cycle related functions. Additionally, comparative gene expression analyses between our hPNPase(old-35) knockdown and overexpression datasets allowed us to identify 77 potential "direct" and 61 potential "indirect" targets of hPNPase(old-35) which formed correlated networks enriched for cell-cycle and wound healing functional association, respectively. These results provide a comprehensive database of genes responsive to hPNPase(old-35) expression levels; along with the identification new potential candidate genes offering fresh insight into cellular pathways regulated by PNPT1 and which may be used in the future for possible therapeutic intervention in mitochondrial- or inflammation-associated disease phenotypes.	Adenoviridae/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cloning, Molecular;DNA, Complementary/genetics;Databases, Genetic;Exoribonucleases/deficiency/genetics/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Humans;Melanoma/genetics/ pathology
Dysregulation of REST-regulated coding and non-coding RNAs in a cellular model of Huntington's disease	C. Soldati, et al.	2013	23145961	Huntingtin (Htt) protein interacts with many transcriptional regulators, with widespread disruption to the transcriptome in Huntington's disease (HD) brought about by altered interactions with the mutant Htt (muHtt) protein. Repressor Element-1 Silencing Transcription Factor (REST) is a repressor whose association with Htt in the cytoplasm is disrupted in HD, leading to increased nuclear REST and concomitant repression of several neuronal-specific genes, including brain-derived neurotrophic factor (Bdnf). Here, we explored a wide set of HD dysregulated genes to identify direct REST targets whose expression is altered in a cellular model of HD but that can be rescued by knock-down of REST activity. We found many direct REST target genes encoding proteins important for nervous system development, including a cohort involved in synaptic transmission, at least two of which can be rescued at the protein level by REST knock-down. We also identified several microRNAs (miRNAs) whose aberrant repression is directly mediated by REST, including miR-137, which has not previously been shown to be a direct REST target in mouse. These data provide evidence of the contribution of inappropriate REST-mediated transcriptional repression to the widespread changes in coding and non-coding gene expression in a cellular model of HD that may affect normal neuronal function and survival.	Animals;Cells, Cultured;Corpus Striatum/cytology;Gene Expression Regulation/physiology;Gene Knock-In Techniques;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Humans;Huntingtin Protein;Huntington Disease/ genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Mice;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Neurons/cytology/ pathology;Nuclear Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics;Repressor Proteins/ antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ physiology
Dissection of Regulatory Elements During Direct Conversion of Somatic Cells Into Neurons	T. Soleimani, et al.	2017	28230276	A revolutionary approach that involves direct conversion of somatic cells into almost any other types of cells showed promising results for regenerative medicine. Currently, producing valuable cell types including neurons, cardiomyocytes, and hepatocytes through direct conversion of somatic cells appear to be a feasible option for regenerative medicine. The process involves inducing the cells by chemical cocktails or by expression of different types of transcription factors. In this concept, in vitro neurogenesis considered to be able to produce neuron cells to replace damaged neurons especially in Alzheimer and Parkinson disease. However, early successful experiments followed by major drawbacks such as low differentiation efficiency in producing neurons and detection of various undesirable types of cells in the culture. Therefore, there is not a single optimized common protocol for producing high quality neurons in vitro so far. This is partly due to the lack of our understanding about the precise cellular, genetic, and molecular mechanisms underlying neurogenesis via direct conversion. In the current work, we have employed meta-analysis tools and extensive gene regulatory network analysis on the high throughput gene expression data obtained from previous reprogramming protocols to identify central gene regulatory components involved in direct conversion of fibroblasts into neurons. Our results identified miR-9, miR-30 as the most important miRNA and TP53, MYC, JUN, SP1, and SMAD2 considered to be the most important transcription factors. These findings would be useful for direct targeting these hub regulatory elements in order to increase the efficacy and specificity of the conversion protocols. J. Cell. Biochem. 9999: 1-13, 2017. (c) 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.	Chemical cocktails;Core regulatory network;Direct conversion;Reprogramming;Somatic neurogenesis
MicroRNA, mRNA, and protein expression link development and aging in human and macaque brain	M. Somel, et al.	2010	20647238	Changes in gene expression levels determine differentiation of tissues involved in development and are associated with functional decline in aging. Although development is tightly regulated, the transition between development and aging, as well as regulation of post-developmental changes, are not well understood. Here, we measured messenger RNA (mRNA), microRNA (miRNA), and protein expression in the prefrontal cortex of humans and rhesus macaques over the species' life spans. We find that few gene expression changes are unique to aging. Instead, the vast majority of miRNA and gene expression changes that occur in aging represent reversals or extensions of developmental patterns. Surprisingly, many gene expression changes previously attributed to aging, such as down-regulation of neural genes, initiate in early childhood. Our results indicate that miRNA and transcription factors regulate not only developmental but also post-developmental expression changes, with a number of regulatory processes continuing throughout the entire life span. Differential evolutionary conservation of the corresponding genomic regions implies that these regulatory processes, although beneficial in development, might be detrimental in aging. These results suggest a direct link between developmental regulation and expression changes taking place in aging.	Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ genetics;Animals;Brain/growth & development/ metabolism;Child;Child, Preschool;Evolution, Molecular;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Humans;Macaca;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Proteins/ metabolism;RNA Stability;RNA, Messenger/ metabolism
miR-10a and miR-204 as a Potential Prognostic Indicator in Low-Grade Gliomas	J. C. Son, et al.	2017	28469392	This study aimed to identify and characterize microRNAs (miRNAs) that are related to radiosensitivity in low-grade gliomas (LGGs). The miRNA expression levels in radiosensitive and radioresistant LGGs were compared using The Cancer Genome Atlas database, and differentially expressed miRNAs were identified using the EBSeq package. The miRNA target genes were predicted using Web databases. Fifteen miRNAs were differentially expressed between the groups, with miR-10a and miR-204 being related to overall survival (OS) of patients with LGG. Patients with upregulated miR-10a expression had a higher mortality rate and shorter OS time, whereas patients with downregulated miR-204 expression had a lower mortality rate and longer OS time. Two genes, HSP90AA1 and CREB5, were targets for both miRNAs. Thus, this study suggests that expression of miR-10a and miR-204 is significantly related to both radiosensitivity and the survival of patients with LGG. These miRNAs could therefore act as clinical biomarkers for LGG prognosis and diagnosis.	Creb5;Hsp90aa1;low-grade glioma;miRNA;overall survival (OS);radiosensitivity;conflicts of interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or;publication of this article.
MicroRNA-205 inhibits tumor cell migration through down-regulating the expression of the LDL receptor-related protein 1	H. Song and G. Bu	2009	19665999	Low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1) is a multifunctional endocytic receptor that plays critical roles in the pathogenesis of several human diseases including tumor metastasis and Alzheimer's disease. However, mechanisms that regulate LRP1 expression under physiological and pathophysiological conditions are not unclear. In human cell lines, we found that miR-205 down-regulates the expression of LRP1 by targeting sequences in the 3'UTR of LRP1 mRNA. This effect was abolished by deleting the miR-205 seed site in the 3'UTR of LRP1. The ectopic expression of miR-205 also significantly mitigated migration of both U87 and SK-LU-1 cells. These results, for the first time, demonstrate that expression of human LRP1 is regulated in part by a specific miRNA, leading to decreased tumor cell migration.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Movement/ genetics;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Low Density Lipoprotein Receptor-Related Protein-1/ genetics;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neoplasm Invasiveness;Neoplasms/ pathology
MiR-155 negatively regulates c-Jun expression at the post-transcriptional level in human dermal fibroblasts in vitro: implications in UVA irradiation-induced photoaging	J. Song, et al.	2012	22508041	OBJECTIVE: C-Jun plays a critical role in ultraviolet A (UVA) irradiation-induced photoaging. The exact mechanisms by which UVA irradiation up-regulates c-Jun expression in human dermal fibroblasts (HDFs) are still not completely understood. We undertook this study to investigate whether microRNA-155 (miR-155) directly regulates the expression of c-Jun in HDFs in vitro. METHODS: Expression of c-Jun mRNA and protein and miR-155 in UVA-irradiated HDFs were detected using quantitative real-time RT-PCR and Western blotting. Luciferase reporter assays were performed to examine whether a miR-155 binding site in the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of the c-Jun gene is responsible for miR-155-mediated c-Jun regulation in HEK293A cells, and expression of c-Jun mRNA and protein in UVA non-exposed and exposed HDFs trasfected with a miR-155 mimic or a miR-155 inhibitor was detected by quantitative real-time RT-PCR and Western blotting. RESULTS: Expression of miR-155 was markedly reduced and that of c-Jun mRNA and protein was significantly up-regulated in UVA-irradiated HDFs. Luciferase reporter assays indicated that c-Jun is a direct target of miR-155 in HEK293A cells. In both UVA non-exposed and exposed HDFs, miR-155 mimic decreased c-Jun protein levels, while miR-155 inhibitor increased c-Jun protein levels, but both had no effect on c-Jun mRNA expression, which suggest that miR-155-induced c-Jun inhibition occurs at the post-transcriptional level. CONCLUSIONS: Our results demonstrate that miR-155 directly controls c-Jun expression in HDFs at the post-transcriptional level and might function as a protective miRNA in HDFs.	3' Untranslated Regions;Blotting, Western;Cell Survival;Fibroblasts/metabolism/pathology/ radiation effects;Gene Expression Regulation;Genes, Reporter/genetics;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Luciferases/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-jun/genetics/ metabolism;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Skin Aging/radiation effects;Transfection;Ultraviolet Rays/ adverse effects
miR-Let7A Controls the Cell Death and Tight Junction Density of Brain Endothelial Cells under High Glucose Condition	J. Song, et al.	2017	28680530	Hyperglycemia-induced stress in the brain of patients with diabetes triggers the disruption of blood-brain barrier (BBB), leading to diverse neurological diseases including stroke and dementia. Recently, the role of microRNA becomes an interest in the research for deciphering the mechanism of brain endothelial cell damage under hyperglycemia. Therefore, we investigated whether mircoRNA Let7A (miR-Let7A) controls the damage of brain endothelial (bEnd.3) cells against high glucose condition. Cell viability, cell death marker expressions (p-53, Bax, and cleaved poly ADP-ribose polymerase), the loss of tight junction proteins (ZO-1 and claudin-5), proinflammatory response (interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor-alpha), inducible nitric oxide synthase, and nitrite production were confirmed using MTT, reverse transcription-PCR, quantitative-PCR, Western blotting, immunofluorescence, and Griess reagent assay. miR-Let7A overexpression significantly prevented cell death and loss of tight junction proteins and attenuated proinflammatory response and nitrite production in the bEnd.3 cells under high glucose condition. Taken together, we suggest that miR-Let7A may attenuate brain endothelial cell damage by controlling cell death signaling, loss of tight junction proteins, and proinflammatory response against high glucose stress. In the future, the manipulation of miR-Let7A may be a novel solution in controlling BBB disruption which leads to the central nervous system diseases.	
Long non-coding RNA EWSAT1 promotes human nasopharyngeal carcinoma cell growth in vitro by targeting miR-326/-330-5p	P. Song and S. C. Yin	2016	27816050	Long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) Ewing sarcoma associated transcript 1 (EWSAT1) has been identified as an oncogene, and its dysregulation is closed corrected with tumor progression in Ewing sarcoma. Recently, high-through put analysis reveals that EWSAT1 is also highly expressed in human nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). However, whether the aberrant expression of EWSAT1 in NPC is corrected with malignancy or prognosis has not been expounded. Herein, we identified that EWSAT1 was up-regulated in NPC tissues and cell lines, and higher expression of EWSAT1 resulted in a markedly poorer survival time. EWSAT1 over-expression facilitated, while EWSAT1 silencing impaired cell growth in NPC. In addition, mechanistic analysis demonstrated that EWSAT1 up-regulated the expression of miR-326/330-5p clusters targeted gene cyclin D1 through acting as a competitive 'sponge' of miR-326/330-5p clusters. Collectively, our data revealed that EWSAT1 promotes NPC cell growth in vitro through up-regulating cyclin D1 partially via 'spongeing' miR-326/330-5p clusters.	Ewing sarcoma associated transcript 1 (EWSAT1);cyclin D1;hsa-miRNA-326/330-5p (miR-326/330-5p);nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC);tumorigenesis
Differential microRNA expression profile comparison between epidermal stem cells and differentiated keratinocytes	Z. Song, et al.	2015	25373715	The aim of the current study was to analyze the differential microRNA (miRNA) expression profiles of human epidermal stem cells (ESCs) and differentiated keratinocytes. Enzyme digestion was used in combination with rapid adhesion to collagen IV to isolate primary human ESCs and differentiated keratinocytes, from which total RNA was extracted. Fluorescence labeling, microarray hybridization and differential expression analyses were performed. Reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RTqPCR) was performed to validate the reliability of the microarray results and predict the target genes of the differentially expressed miRNAs. A total of 25 miRNAs, including hsamiR1975p, hsamiR125b5p and hsamiR376a3p, were upregulated, whereas 166 miRNAs, including hsamiR29b3p, hsamiR203 and hsamiR34a3p, were downregulated in the human ESCs compared with the expression in differentiated keratinocytes. RTqPCR results confirmed the upregulation of hsamiR1975p and the downregulation of hsamiR29b3p, which were consistent with the microarray results. miRNA target prediction indicated that the miRNA expression levels correlated with cell proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis and senescence. Expression levels of miRNAs significantly differed between human ESCs and differentiated keratinocytes. This finding may be attributed to their biological characteristics, such as proliferative behavior and differentiation abilities.	Adolescent;Adult;Cell Differentiation/genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Keratinocytes/cytology/ metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Stem Cells/cytology/ metabolism;Transcriptome;Young Adult
miRNA expression profiles in cerebrospinal fluid and blood of patients with Alzheimer's disease and other types of dementia - an exploratory study	S. S. Sorensen, et al.	2016	26981236	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNA molecules that function as posttranscriptional regulators of gene expression. Measurements of miRNAs in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood have just started gaining attention as a novel diagnostic tool for various neurological conditions. The purpose of this exploratory investigation was to analyze the expression of miRNAs in CSF and blood of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other neurodegenerative disorders in order to identify potential miRNA biomarker candidates able to separate AD from other types of dementia. METHODS: CSF was collected by lumbar puncture performed on 10 patients diagnosed with AD and 10 patients diagnosed with either vascular dementia, frontotemporal dementia or dementia with Lewy bodies. Blood samples were taken immediately after. Total RNA was extracted from cell free fractions of CSF and plasma, and a screening for 372 known miRNA sequences was carried out by real time quantitative polymerase chain reactions (miRCURY LNA Universal RT miRNA PCR, Polyadenylation and cDNA synthesis kit, Exiqon). RESULTS: Fifty-two miRNAs were detected in CSF in at least nine out of ten patients in both groups. Among these, two miRNAs (let-7i-5p and miR-15a-5p) were found significantly up-regulated and one miRNA (miR-29c-3p) was found significantly down-regulated in patients with AD compared to controls. One hundred and sixty-eight miRNAs were frequently detected in the blood, among which miR-590-5p and miR-142-5p were significantly up-regulated and miR-194-5p was significantly down-regulated in AD patients compared to controls. CONCLUSIONS: Detection of miRNA expression profiles in blood and in particular CSF of patients diagnosed with different types of dementia is feasible and it seems that several expressional differences between AD and other dementia types do exist when measured in a clinically relevant setup. In this explorative pilot study, the deregulated miRNAs in CSF of AD patients may be associated with relevant target genes related to AD pathology, including APP and BACE1, which suggests that miRNAs are interesting candidates for AD biomarkers in the future.	Alzheimer's disease;Blood;Cerebrospinal fluid;Dementia;Diagnostic biomarker;Neurodegenerative disease;miRNA expression
Novel roles of non-coding brain RNAs in health and disease	H. Soreq	2014	25018693		Alzheimer's disease;Parkinson's disease;cholinergic signaling;epilepsy;ischemic stroke;long non-coding RNAs;microRNAs;schizophrenia
MicroRNA-target interactions in neurodegenerative diseases	H. Soreq	2015	27386172		Alzheimer's disease;microRNAs;pseudogenes
NeurimmiRs: microRNAs in the neuroimmune interface	H. Soreq and Y. Wolf	2011	21813326	Recent reports of microRNA (miR) modulators of both neuronal and immune processes (here termed NeurimmiRs) predict therapeutic potential for manipulating NeurimmiR levels in diseases affecting both the immune system and higher brain functions, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), multiple sclerosis (MS) and anxiety-related disorders. In our opinion, NeurimmiRs that function within both the nervous and the immune systems, such as miR-132 and miR-124, may act as 'negotiators' between these two interacting compartments. We suggest that NeurimmiRs primarily target transcriptional or other regulatory genes, which enables modulation of both immune and cognitive processes through direct or indirect alterations of neuron-glia and/or brain-to-body signaling. Thus, manipulating NeurimmiR control over the immune contributions to cognitive pathways may offer new therapeutic targets.	Alzheimer Disease/genetics/immunology;Animals;Brain/ immunology/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Inflammation/genetics/immunology;MicroRNAs/genetics/ immunology;Multiple Sclerosis/genetics/immunology;Neurons/ immunology/metabolism;Parkinson Disease/genetics/immunology;Signal Transduction
The functional consequences of age-related changes in microRNA expression in skeletal muscle	A. Soriano-Arroquia, et al.	2016	26922183	A common characteristic of ageing is disrupted homeostasis between growth and atrophy of skeletal muscle resulting in loss of muscle mass and function, which is associated with sarcopenia. Sarcopenia is related to impaired balance, increased falls and decline in quality of life of older people. Ageing-related transcriptome and proteome changes in skeletal muscle have been characterised, however the molecular mechanisms underlying sarcopenia are still not fully understood. microRNAs are novel regulators of gene expression known to modulate skeletal muscle development and homeostasis. Expression of numerous microRNAs is disrupted in skeletal muscle with age however, the functional consequences of this are not yet understood. Given that a single microRNA can simultaneously affect multiple signalling pathways, microRNAs are potent modulators of pathophysiological changes occurring during ageing. Here we use microRNA and transcript expression profiling together with microRNA functional assays to show that disrupted microRNA:target interactions play an important role in maintaining muscle homeostasis. We identified miR-181a as a regulator of the sirtuin1 (Sirt1) gene expression in skeletal muscle and show that the expression of miR-181a and its target gene is disrupted in skeletal muscle from old mice. Moreover, we show that miR-181a:Sirt1 interactions regulate myotube size. Our results demonstrate that disrupted microRNA:target interactions are likely related to the pathophysiological changes occurring in skeletal muscle during ageing.	Ageing;Muscle;Sarcopenia;Sirt1;microRNA
Age-related changes in miR-143-3p:Igfbp5 interactions affect muscle regeneration	A. Soriano-Arroquia, et al.	2016	26762731	A common characteristic of aging is defective regeneration of skeletal muscle. The molecular pathways underlying age-related decline in muscle regenerative potential remain elusive. microRNAs are novel gene regulators controlling development and homeostasis and the regeneration of most tissues, including skeletal muscle. Here, we use satellite cells and primary myoblasts from mice and humans and an in vitro regeneration model, to show that disrupted expression of microRNA-143-3p and its target gene, Igfbp5, plays an important role in muscle regeneration in vitro. We identified miR-143 as a regulator of the insulin growth factor-binding protein 5 (Igfbp5) in primary myoblasts and show that the expression of miR-143 and its target gene is disrupted in satellite cells from old mice. Moreover, we show that downregulation of miR-143 during aging may act as a compensatory mechanism aiming at improving myogenesis efficiency; however, concomitant upregulation of miR-143 target gene, Igfbp5, is associated with increased cell senescence, thus affecting myogenesis. Our data demonstrate that dysregulation of miR-143-3p:Igfbp5 interactions in satellite cells with age may be responsible for age-related changes in satellite cell function.	Adult;Aged;Aging/metabolism/pathology/ physiology;Animals;Carrier Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Cell Aging/physiology;Female;Humans;Insulin-Like Growth Factor Binding Protein 5/ genetics/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;Muscle, Skeletal/metabolism/ physiology;Myoblasts, Skeletal/cytology/metabolism;Regeneration/genetics/ physiology;Satellite Cells, Skeletal Muscle/cytology/metabolism;aging;microRNA;muscle;regeneration;sarcopenia;senescence
Unraveling 50-Year-Old Clues Linking Neurodegeneration and Cancer to Cycad Toxins: Are microRNAs Common Mediators?	P. Spencer, et al.	2012	23060898	Recognition of overlapping molecular signaling activated by a chemical trigger of cancer and neurodegeneration is new, but the path to this discovery has been long and potholed. Six conferences (1962-1972) examined the puzzling neurotoxic and carcinogenic properties of a then-novel toxin [cycasin: methylazoxymethanol (MAM)-beta-d-glucoside] in cycad plants used traditionally for food and medicine on Guam where a complex neurodegenerative disease plagued the indigenous population. Affected families showed combinations of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), parkinsonism (P), and/or a dementia (D) akin to Alzheimer's disease (AD). Modernization saw declining disease rates on Guam and remarkable changes in clinical phenotype (ALS was replaced by P-D and then by D) and in two genetically distinct ALS-PDC-affected populations (Kii-Japan, West Papua-Indonesia) that used cycad seed medicinally. MAM forms DNA lesions - repaired by O(6)-methylguanine methyltransferase (MGMT) - that perturb mouse brain development and induce malignant tumors in peripheral organs. The brains of young adult MGMT-deficient mice given a single dose of MAM show DNA lesion-linked changes in cell-signaling pathways associated with miRNA-1, which is implicated in colon, liver, and prostate cancers, and in neurological disease, notably AD. MAM is metabolized to formaldehyde, a human carcinogen. Formaldehyde-responsive miRNAs predicted to modulate MAM-associated genes in the brains of MGMT-deficient mice include miR-17-5p and miR-18d, which regulate genes involved in tumor suppression, DNA repair, amyloid deposition, and neurotransmission. These findings marry cycad-associated ALS-PDC with colon, liver, and prostate cancer; they also add to evidence linking changes in microRNA status both to ALS, AD, and parkinsonism, and to cancer initiation and progression.	Als-pdc;Alzheimer disease;Bmaa;DNA damage;amyotrophic lateral sclerosis;colon cancer;formaldehyde;methylazoxymethanol
RNA interference links oxidative stress to the inhibition of heat stress adaptation	Z. Spiro, et al.	2012	22369044	UNLABELLED: Increased oxidative stress is associated with various diseases and aging, while adaptation to heat stress is an important determinant of survival and contributes to longevity. However, the impact of oxidative stress on heat resistance remains largely unclear. AIM: In this study we investigated how oxidative stress impinges on heat stress responses. RESULTS: We report that hydrogen-peroxide (H(2)O(2)) pretreatment inhibits both acquired thermotolerance and heat-induced Hsp70 expression in mammalian cells, as well as acquired thermotolerance in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, via RNA interference. Moreover, we demonstrate that elimination of RNA interference by silencing key enzymes in microRNA biogenesis, dcr-1 or pash-1, restores the diminished intrinsic thermotolerance of aged and H(2)O(2)-elimination compromised (catalase-2 and peroxiredoxin-2 deficient) worms. INNOVATION AND CONCLUSION: These results uncover a novel post-transcriptional element in the regulation of heat stress adaptation under oxidative conditions that may have implications in disease susceptibility and aging.	Animals;COS Cells;Caenorhabditis elegans/metabolism/physiology;Cercopithecus aethiops;HSP70 Heat-Shock Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Heat-Shock Response/drug effects/genetics;Hydrogen Peroxide/pharmacology;Microscopy, Fluorescence;Oxidative Stress/ drug effects/ genetics;RNA Interference/ physiology
A Parallel Study of mRNA and microRNA Profiling of Peripheral Blood in Young Adult Women	S. T. Sredni, et al.	2011	22303345	BACKGROUND: Aging is a complex process that involves the interplay of genetic, epigenetic, and environmental factors. Identifying aging-related biomarkers holds great potential for improving our understanding of complex physiological changes, thereby providing a means to investigate the mechanism by which aging influences various diseases. METHOD AND RESULTS: We performed a parallel study of microRNA and gene expression profiling of peripheral blood in a group of healthy young adult women, among which 13 were aged 22-25 and 9 were aged 36-39 years old. We identified a significantly distinct pattern of microRNA, but not gene expression profiling, between these two young adult women groups. We also performed correlation analysis of expression levels between all pairs of age-associated microRNAs and genes and identified a weak global correlation between these two types of expression levels. A significant involvement of estrogen regulation was observed by pathway analysis of the most differentially expressed microRNAs that included miR-155, -18a, -142, -340, -363, -195, and -24. CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that the change in global microRNA expression in the peripheral blood is associated with normal aging in young adult women. This change may precede global gene expression changes. Future studies are needed to investigate the regulatory mechanism of the estrogen-related microRNAs and associated diseases.	aging;estrogen;gene expression;microRNA;microarrays
Senescence-associated microRNAs linked to tumorigenesis	S. Srikantan, et al.	2011	21941082		Cell Aging;Cell Transformation, Neoplastic;DNA Damage;Gene Silencing;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism
Paradoxical microRNAs: individual gene repressors, global translation enhancers	S. Srikantan, et al.	2011	21311220	In mammalian cells, microRNAs regulate the expression of target mRNAs generally by reducing their stability and/or translation, and thereby control diverse cellular processes such as senescence. We recently reported the differential abundance of microRNAs in young (early-passage, proliferating) relative to senescent (late-passage, non-proliferating) WI-38 human diploid fibroblasts. Here we report that the levels of the vast majority of mRNAs were unaltered in senescent compared to young WI-38 cells, while overall mRNA translation was potently reduced in senescent cells. Downregulation of Dicer or Drosha, two major enzymes in microRNA biogenesis, lowered microRNA levels, but, unexpectedly, it also reduced global translation. While a reduction in Dicer levels markedly enhanced cellular senescence, reduction of Drosha levels did not, suggesting that the Drosha/Dicer effects on translation may be independent of senescence, and further suggesting that microRNAs may directly or indirectly enhance mRNA translation in WI-38 cells. We discuss possible scenarios through which Dicer/Drosha/microRNAs could enhance translation.	Cell Aging;Cells, Cultured;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/genetics/metabolism;Down-Regulation;Fibroblasts/metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Protein Biosynthesis;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/metabolism;Ribonuclease III/genetics/metabolism
Proteomic analyses reveal that loss of TDP-43 affects RNA processing and intracellular transport	M. Stalekar, et al.	2015	25743254	Transactive response DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) is a predominantly nuclear, ubiquitously expressed RNA and DNA-binding protein. It recognizes and binds to UG repeats and is involved in pre-mRNA splicing, mRNA stability and microRNA metabolism. TDP-43 is essential in early embryonic development but accumulates in cytoplasmic aggregates in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and tau-negative frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). It is not known yet whether cytoplasmic aggregates of TDP-43 are toxic or protective but they are often associated with a loss of TDP-43 from the nucleus and neurodegeneration may be caused by a loss of normal TDP-43 function or a gain of toxic function. Here we present a proteomic study to analyze the effect of loss of TDP-43 on the proteome. MS data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001668. Our results indicate that TDP-43 is an important regulator of RNA metabolism and intracellular transport. We show that Ran-binding protein 1 (RanBP1), DNA methyltransferase 3 alpha (Dnmt3a) and chromogranin B (CgB) are downregulated upon TDP-43 knockdown. Subsequently, transportin 1 level is increased as a result of RanBP1 depletion. Improper regulation of these proteins and the subsequent disruption of cellular processes may play a role in the pathogenesis of the TDP-43 proteinopathies ALS and FTLD.	Carrier Proteins/ metabolism;Cell Line, Tumor;Chromogranin B/metabolism;DNA (Cytosine-5-)-Methyltransferase/metabolism;DNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Humans;Nuclear Proteins/metabolism;Proteomics;RNA/ metabolism;beta Karyopherins/metabolism;RanBP1;Tdp-43;amyotrophic lateral sclerosis;comparative proteomics;frontotemporal lobar degeneration;intracellular transport
Specific Regional and Age-Related Small Noncoding RNA Expression Patterns Within Superior Temporal Gyrus of Typical Human Brains Are Less Distinct in Autism Brains	B. Stamova, et al.	2015	26350727	Small noncoding RNAs play a critical role in regulating messenger RNA throughout brain development and when altered could have profound effects leading to disorders such as autism spectrum disorders (ASD). We assessed small noncoding RNAs, including microRNA and small nucleolar RNA, in superior temporal sulcus association cortex and primary auditory cortex in typical and ASD brains from early childhood to adulthood. Typical small noncoding RNA expression profiles were less distinct in ASD, both between regions and changes with age. Typical micro-RNA coexpression associations were absent in ASD brains. miR-132, miR-103, and miR-320 micro-RNAs were dysregulated in ASD and have previously been associated with autism spectrum disorders. These diminished region- and age-related micro-RNA expression profiles are in line with previously reported findings of attenuated messenger RNA and long noncoding RNA in ASD brain. This study demonstrates alterations in superior temporal sulcus in ASD, a region implicated in social impairment, and is the first to demonstrate molecular alterations in the primary auditory cortex.	Adolescent;Adult;Aging/metabolism;Auditory Cortex/growth & development/metabolism;Autistic Disorder/ genetics/ metabolism;Child;Child, Preschool;Cluster Analysis;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Humans;Male;Microarray Analysis;Middle Aged;Principal Component Analysis;RNA, Small Untranslated/ metabolism;Temporal Lobe/ growth & development/ metabolism;Young Adult;auditory cortex;autism;micro-RNA;small nucleolar RNA;superior temporal sulcus
Genetic and Epigenetic Drug Targets in Myelodysplastic Syndromes	K. Stankov, et al.	2017	27697023	BACKGROUND: Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) represent a heterogeneous group of clonal disorders of hematopoietic system, characterized by genetic, epigenetic or microenvironmental alterations of aging hematopoietic stem cells. Pathophysiology of MDS comprises the suppression of normal hematopoiesis and reduced myeloid progenitor cells differentiation, with the main consequence of peripheral cytopenias and increased risk to evolution in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). METHOD: This review summarizes the evolving understanding of the role of genetic and epigenetic alterations involved in pathogenesis and current and future strategies for therapeutic targeting in myelodysplastic syndromes. RESULTS: In addition to molecular characteristics, immune and microenvironmental factors in bone marrow of MDS patients may further modify the MDS manifestations, its clinical presentation, disease course, risk of transformation to AML and prognosis of MDS, as well as response to therapy. Current clinical response to therapy approaches are exerted both by epigenetic alterations and by induction of apoptosis. CONCLUSION: Future treatment strategies in preclinical and clinical investigations are directed towards new dosing schedules of existing drugs, new genetic and epigenetic targets and combination of different agents, including hypomethylation agents and histone deacetylase inhibitors.	Myelodysplastic syndromes;epigenetic targets;hypomethylating agents;leukemia;microRNA;mutations;pathogenesis;therapy
Neurogenomics and the role of a large mutational target on rapid behavioral change	C. E. Stanley, Jr. and R. J. Kulathinal	2016	27825385	BACKGROUND: Behavior, while complex and dynamic, is among the most diverse, derived, and rapidly evolving traits in animals. The highly labile nature of heritable behavioral change is observed in such evolutionary phenomena as the emergence of converged behaviors in domesticated animals, the rapid evolution of preferences, and the routine development of ethological isolation between diverging populations and species. In fact, it is believed that nervous system development and its potential to evolve a seemingly infinite array of behavioral innovations played a major role in the successful diversification of metazoans, including our own human lineage. However, unlike other rapidly evolving functional systems such as sperm-egg interactions and immune defense, the genetic basis of rapid behavioral change remains elusive. PRESENTATION OF THE HYPOTHESIS: Here we propose that the rapid divergence and widespread novelty of innate and adaptive behavior is primarily a function of its genomic architecture. Specifically, we hypothesize that the broad diversity of behavioral phenotypes present at micro- and macroevolutionary scales is promoted by a disproportionately large mutational target of neurogenic genes. We present evidence that these large neuro-behavioral targets are significant and ubiquitous in animal genomes and suggest that behavior's novelty and rapid emergence are driven by a number of factors including more selection on a larger pool of variants, a greater role of phenotypic plasticity, and/or unique molecular features present in large genes. We briefly discuss the origins of these large neurogenic genes, as they relate to the remarkable diversity of metazoan behaviors, and highlight key consequences on both behavioral traits and neurogenic disease across, respectively, evolutionary and ontogenetic time scales. TESTING THE HYPOTHESIS: Current approaches to studying the genetic mechanisms underlying rapid phenotypic change primarily focus on identifying signatures of Darwinian selection in protein-coding regions. In contrast, the large mutational target hypothesis places genomic architecture and a larger allelic pool at the forefront of rapid evolutionary change, particularly in genetic systems that are polygenic and regulatory in nature. Genomic data from brain and neural tissues in mammals as well as a preliminary survey of neurogenic genes from comparative genomic data support this hypothesis while rejecting both positive and relaxed selection on proteins or higher mutation rates. In mammals and invertebrates, neurogenic genes harbor larger protein-coding regions and possess a richer regulatory repertoire of miRNA targets and transcription factor binding sites. Overall, neurogenic genes cover a disproportionately large genomic fraction, providing a sizeable substrate for evolutionary, genetic, and molecular mechanisms to act upon. Readily available comparative and functional genomic data provide unexplored opportunities to test whether a distinct neurogenomic architecture can promote rapid behavioral change via several mechanisms unique to large genes, and which components of this large footprint are uniquely metazoan. IMPLICATIONS OF THE HYPOTHESIS: The large mutational target hypothesis highlights the eminent roles of mutation and functional genomic architecture in generating rapid developmental and evolutionary change. It has broad implications on our understanding of the genetics of complex adaptive traits such as behavior by focusing on the importance of mutational input, from SNPs to alternative transcripts to transposable elements, on driving evolutionary rates of functional systems. Such functional divergence has important implications in promoting behavioral isolation across short- and long-term timescales. Due to genome-scaled polygenic adaptation, the large target effect also contributes to our inability to identify adapted behavioral candidate genes. The presence of large neurogenic genes, particularly in the mammalian brain and other neural tissues, further offers emerging insight into the etiology of neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative diseases. The well-known correlation between neurological spectrum disorders in children and paternal age may simply be a direct result of aging fathers accumulating mutations across these large neurodevelopmental genes. The large mutational target hypothesis can also explain the rapid evolution of other functional systems covering a large genomic fraction such as male fertility and its preferential association with hybrid male sterility among closely related taxa. Overall, a focus on mutational potential may increase our power in understanding the genetic basis of complex phenotypes such as behavior while filling a general gap in understanding their evolution.	Behavior;Genomic architecture;Long genes;Neurodevelopmental disease;Neurogenome;Rapid evolution;Sexual isolation
A Large-Scale Analysis of Genetic Variants within Putative miRNA Binding Sites in Prostate Cancer	S. Stegeman, et al.	2015	25691096	UNLABELLED: Prostate cancer is the second most common malignancy among men worldwide. Genome-wide association studies have identified 100 risk variants for prostate cancer, which can explain approximately 33% of the familial risk of the disease. We hypothesized that a comprehensive analysis of genetic variations found within the 3' untranslated region of genes predicted to affect miRNA binding (miRSNP) can identify additional prostate cancer risk variants. We investigated the association between 2,169 miRSNPs and prostate cancer risk in a large-scale analysis of 22,301 cases and 22,320 controls of European ancestry from 23 participating studies. Twenty-two miRSNPs were associated (P<2.3x10(-5)) with risk of prostate cancer, 10 of which were within 7 genes previously not mapped by GWAS studies. Further, using miRNA mimics and reporter gene assays, we showed that miR-3162-5p has specific affinity for the KLK3 rs1058205 miRSNP T-allele, whereas miR-370 has greater affinity for the VAMP8 rs1010 miRSNP A-allele, validating their functional role. SIGNIFICANCE: Findings from this large association study suggest that a focus on miRSNPs, including functional evaluation, can identify candidate risk loci below currently accepted statistical levels of genome-wide significance. Studies of miRNAs and their interactions with SNPs could provide further insights into the mechanisms of prostate cancer risk.	3' Untranslated Regions;Adult;Aged;Alleles;Binding Sites;Case-Control Studies;Cluster Analysis;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Genetic Variation;Genotype;Humans;Kallikreins/genetics/metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/chemistry/ genetics;Middle Aged;Neoplasm Grading;Neoplasm Staging;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Prostate-Specific Antigen/genetics/metabolism;Prostatic Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Quantitative Trait Loci;R-SNARE Proteins/genetics/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/chemistry/ genetics
Vascular microRNAs: from disease mechanisms to therapeutic targets	K. Stellos and S. Dimmeler	2014	24385499		Animals;Aorta/ metabolism;Atherosclerosis/ therapy;Humans;MicroRNAs/ therapeutic use;NF-kappa B/ metabolism;Tunica Intima/ metabolism;Editorials;NF-kappa B;aging;atherosclerosis;cardiovascular diseases;microRNAs;treatment
Overexpression of the Cytokine BAFF and Autoimmunity Risk	M. Steri, et al.	2017	28445677	BACKGROUND: Genomewide association studies of autoimmune diseases have mapped hundreds of susceptibility regions in the genome. However, only for a few association signals has the causal gene been identified, and for even fewer have the causal variant and underlying mechanism been defined. Coincident associations of DNA variants affecting both the risk of autoimmune disease and quantitative immune variables provide an informative route to explore disease mechanisms and drug-targetable pathways. METHODS: Using case-control samples from Sardinia, Italy, we performed a genomewide association study in multiple sclerosis followed by TNFSF13B locus-specific association testing in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Extensive phenotyping of quantitative immune variables, sequence-based fine mapping, cross-population and cross-phenotype analyses, and gene-expression studies were used to identify the causal variant and elucidate its mechanism of action. Signatures of positive selection were also investigated. RESULTS: A variant in TNFSF13B, encoding the cytokine and drug target B-cell activating factor (BAFF), was associated with multiple sclerosis as well as SLE. The disease-risk allele was also associated with up-regulated humoral immunity through increased levels of soluble BAFF, B lymphocytes, and immunoglobulins. The causal variant was identified: an insertion-deletion variant, GCTGT-->A (in which A is the risk allele), yielded a shorter transcript that escaped microRNA inhibition and increased production of soluble BAFF, which in turn up-regulated humoral immunity. Population genetic signatures indicated that this autoimmunity variant has been evolutionarily advantageous, most likely by augmenting resistance to malaria. CONCLUSIONS: A TNFSF13B variant was associated with multiple sclerosis and SLE, and its effects were clarified at the population, cellular, and molecular levels. (Funded by the Italian Foundation for Multiple Sclerosis and others.).	Autoimmunity;B-Cell Activating Factor/ genetics/metabolism;Case-Control Studies;Gene Expression;Genome-Wide Association Study;Humans;INDEL Mutation;Italy;Lupus Erythematosus, Systemic/ genetics/immunology;MicroRNAs;Multiple Sclerosis/ genetics/immunology;Phenotype;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Risk;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Transcription, Genetic
Enterococcus faecalis Infection and Reactive Oxygen Species Down-Regulates the miR-17-92 Cluster in Gastric Adenocarcinoma Cell Culture	J. A. Strickertsson, et al.	2014	25170597	Chronic inflammation due to bacterial overgrowth of the stomach predisposes to the development of gastric cancer and is also associated with high levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In recent years increasing attention has been drawn to microRNAs (miRNAs) due to their role in the pathogenesis of many human diseases including gastric cancer. Here we studied the impact of infection by the gram-positive bacteria Enterococcus faecalis (E. faecalis) on global miRNA expression as well as the effect of ROS on selected miRNAs. Human gastric adenocarcinoma cell line MKN74 was infected with living E. faecalis for 24 h or for 5 days or with E. faecalis lysate for 5 days. The miRNA expression was examined by microarray analysis using Affymetrix GeneChip miRNA Arrays. To test the effect of ROS, MKN74 cells were treated with 100 mM tert-Butyl hydroperoxide (TBHP). Following 5 days of E. faecalis infection we found 91 differentially expressed miRNAs in response to living bacteria and 2 miRNAs responded to E. faecalis lysate. We verified the down-regulation of the miR-17-92 and miR-106-363 clusters and of other miRNAs involved in the oxidative stress-response by qRT-PCR. We conclude that only infection by living E. faecalis bacteria caused a significant global response in miRNA expression in the MKN74 cell culture. E. faecalis infection as well as ROS stimulation down-regulated the expression of the miR-17-92 cluster. We believe that these changes could reflect a general response of gastric epithelial cells to bacterial infections.	
Axotomy-induced miR-21 promotes axon growth in adult dorsal root ganglion neurons	I. T. Strickland, et al.	2011	21853131	Following injury, dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons undergo transcriptional changes so as to adopt phenotypic changes that promote cell survival and axonal regeneration. Here we used a microarray approach to profile changes in a population of small noncoding RNAs known as microRNAs (miRNAs) in the L4 and L5 DRG following sciatic nerve transection. Results showed that 20 miRNA transcripts displayed a significant change in expression levels, with 8 miRNAs transcripts being altered by more than 1.5-fold. Using quantitative reverse transcription PCR, we demonstrated that one of these miRNAs, miR-21, was upregulated by 7-fold in the DRG at 7 days post-axotomy. In dissociated adult rat DRG neurons lentiviral vector-mediated overexpression of miR-21 promoted neurite outgrowth on a reduced laminin substrate. miR-21 directly downregulated expression of Sprouty2 protein, as confirmed by Western blot analysis and 3' untranslated region (UTR) luciferase assays. Our data show that miR-21 is an axotomy-induced miRNA that enhances axon growth, and suggest that miRNAs are important players in regulating growth pathways following peripheral nerve injury.	Adaptor Proteins, Signal Transducing;Aging/ metabolism;Animals;Axons/ metabolism;Axotomy;Ganglia, Spinal/ metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Intracellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins;Membrane Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Neurites/metabolism/pathology;Rats;Rats, Wistar;Sciatic Nerve/injuries/metabolism/pathology;Up-Regulation/genetics
TAp63 suppresses metastasis through coordinate regulation of Dicer and miRNAs	X. Su, et al.	2010	20962848	Aberrant expression of microRNAs (miRNAs) and the enzymes that control their processing have been reported in multiple biological processes including primary and metastatic tumours, but the mechanisms governing this are not clearly understood. Here we show that TAp63, a p53 family member, suppresses tumorigenesis and metastasis, and coordinately regulates Dicer and miR-130b to suppress metastasis. Metastatic mouse and human tumours deficient in TAp63 express Dicer at very low levels, and we found that modulation of expression of Dicer and miR-130b markedly affected the metastatic potential of cells lacking TAp63. TAp63 binds to and transactivates the Dicer promoter, demonstrating direct transcriptional regulation of Dicer by TAp63. These data provide a novel understanding of the roles of TAp63 in tumour and metastasis suppression through the coordinate transcriptional regulation of Dicer and miR-130b and may have implications for the many processes regulated by miRNAs.	Animals;Cell Aging;Cell Line;Cell Line, Tumor;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/biosynthesis/deficiency/genetics/ metabolism;Endoribonucleases/genetics/ metabolism;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Genes, Tumor Suppressor/physiology;Genomic Instability;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics/metabolism;Neoplasm Metastasis/ genetics;Neoplasms/genetics/pathology/secretion;Phosphoproteins/deficiency/genetics/ metabolism;Promoter Regions, Genetic/genetics;Ribonuclease III/biosynthesis/deficiency/genetics/ metabolism;Trans-Activators/deficiency/genetics/ metabolism;Transcription Factors;Transcriptional Activation;Tumor Suppressor Proteins/deficiency/genetics/ metabolism
Integrative analysis of the microRNA-mRNA response to radiochemotherapy in primary head and neck squamous cell carcinoma cells	I. Summerer, et al.	2015	26328888	BACKGROUND: Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is a very heterogeneous disease resulting in huge differences in the treatment response. New individualized therapy strategies including molecular targeting might help to improve treatment success. In order to identify potential targets, we developed a HNSCC radiochemotherapy cell culture model of primary HNSCC cells derived from two different patients (HN1957 and HN2092) and applied an integrative microRNA (miRNA) and mRNA analysis in order to gain information on the biological networks and processes of the cellular therapy response. We further identified potential target genes of four therapy-responsive miRNAs detected previously in the circulation of HNSCC patients by pathway enrichment analysis. RESULTS: The two primary cell cultures differ in global copy number alterations and P53 mutational status, thus reflecting heterogeneity of HNSCC. However, they also share many copy number alterations and chromosomal rearrangements as well as deregulated therapy-responsive miRNAs and mRNAs. Accordingly, six common therapy-responsive pathways (direct P53 effectors, apoptotic execution phase, DNA damage/telomere stress induced senescence, cholesterol biosynthesis, unfolded protein response, dissolution of fibrin clot) were identified in both cell cultures based on deregulated mRNAs. However, inflammatory pathways represented an important part of the treatment response only in HN1957, pointing to differences in the treatment responses of the two primary cultures. Focused analysis of target genes of four therapy-responsive circulating miRNAs, identified in a previous study on HNSCC patients, revealed a major impact on the pathways direct P53 effectors, the E2F transcription factor network and pathways in cancer (mainly represented by the PTEN/AKT signaling pathway). CONCLUSIONS: The integrative analysis combining miRNA expression, mRNA expression and the related cellular pathways revealed that the majority of radiochemotherapy-responsive pathways in primary HNSCC cells are related to cell cycle, proliferation, cell death and stress response (including inflammation). Despite the heterogeneity of HNSCC, the two primary cell cultures exhibited strong similarities in the treatment response. The findings of our study suggest potential therapeutic targets in the E2F transcription factor network and the PTEN/AKT signaling pathway.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Carcinoma, Squamous Cell/ genetics/ therapy;Cell Line, Tumor;Chemoradiotherapy;Cluster Analysis;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Gene Regulatory Networks;Head and Neck Neoplasms/ genetics/ therapy;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Reproducibility of Results;Signal Transduction/genetics
Comprehensive annotation of microRNA expression profiles	B. Sun, et al.	2013	24359251	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate many biological processes by post-translational gene silencing. Analysis of miRNA expression profiles is a reliable method for investigating particular biological processes due to the stability of miRNA and the development of advanced sequencing methods. However, this approach is limited by the broad specificity of miRNAs, which may target several mRNAs. RESULT: In this study, we developed a method for comprehensive annotation of miRNA array or deep sequencing data for investigation of cellular biological effects. Using this method, the specific pathways and biological processes involved in Alzheimer's disease were predicted with high correlation in four independent samples. Furthermore, this method was validated for evaluation of cadmium telluride (CdTe) nanomaterial cytotoxicity. As a result, apoptosis pathways were selected as the top pathways associated with CdTe nanoparticle exposure, which is consistent with previous studies. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings contribute to the validation of miRNA microarray or deep sequencing results for early diagnosis of disease and evaluation of the biological safety of new materials and drugs.	Alzheimer Disease/genetics/metabolism;Cadmium Compounds/chemistry;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Quantum Dots/chemistry/toxicity;Tellurium/chemistry;Transcriptome/drug effects
MicroRNA-346 facilitates cell growth and metastasis, and suppresses cell apoptosis in human non-small cell lung cancer by regulation of XPC/ERK/Snail/E-cadherin pathway	C. C. Sun, et al.	2016	27777383	Determinants of growth and metastasis in cancer remain of great interest to define. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have frequently emerged as tumor metastatic regulator by acting on multiple signaling pathways. Here we report the definition of miR-346 as a novel oncogenic microRNA that facilitates non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell growth and metastasis. XPC, an important DNA damage recognition factor in nucleotide excision repair was defined as a target for down-regulation by miR-346, functioning through direct interaction with the 3'-UTR of XPC mRNA. Blocking miR-346 by an antagomiR was sufficient to inhibit NSCLC cell growth and metastasis, an effect that could be phenol-copied by RNAi-mediated silencing of XPC. In vivo studies established that miR-346 overexpression was sufficient to promote tumor growth by A549 cells in xenografts mice, relative to control cells. Overall, our results defined miR-346 as an oncogenic miRNA in NSCLC, the levels of which contributed to tumor growth and invasive aggressiveness.	Xpc;microRNA-346 (miR-346);non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC);oncogenesis
Nuclear Receptor TLX in Development and Diseases	G. Sun, et al.	2017	28527574	The nuclear receptor TLX (NR2E1) is a transcription factor that is critical for neural development and adult neurogenesis through its actions in regulating neural stem cell proliferation, self-renewal, and fate determination. These roles are primarily executed by regulating TLX downstream target genes involved in myriad pathways such as cell cycle progression, RNA processing, angiogenesis, and senescence. Recent studies suggest that dysregulation of TLX pathways plays an important role in the pathogenesis of human neurological disorders and brain tumors. Here, we will highlight recent progress in the roles of TLX in brain development and adult neurogenesis, and the relevance of TLX to neurological diseases and brain tumors. We will also discuss the potential of TLX as a therapeutic target for these disorders.	Brain organoids;Glioblastoma stem cells;Nr2e1;Neural stem cells;Neurogenesis;Neurological diseases;Schizophrenia;Senescence;microRNA
Altered microRNA expression in bovine skeletal muscle with age	J. Sun, et al.	2015	25703017	Age-dependent decline in skeletal muscle function leads to several inherited and acquired muscular disorders in elderly individuals. The levels of microRNAs (miRNAs) could be altered during muscle maintenance and repair. We therefore performed a comprehensive investigation for miRNAs from five different periods of bovine skeletal muscle development using next-generation small RNA sequencing. In total, 511 miRNAs, including one putatively novel miRNA, were identified. Thirty-six miRNAs were differentially expressed between prenatal and postnatal stages of muscle development including several myomiRs (miR-1, miR-206 and let-7 families). Compared with miRNA expression between different muscle tissues, 14 miRNAs were up-regulated and 22 miRNAs were down-regulated in the muscle of postnatal stage. In addition, a novel miRNA was predicted and submitted to the miRBase database as bta-mir-10020. A dual luciferase reporter assay was used to demonstrate that bta-mir-10020 directly targeted the 3'-UTR of the bovine ANGPT1 gene. The overexpression of bta-mir-10020 significantly decreased the DsRed fluorescence in the wild-type expression cassette compared to the mutant type. Using three computational approaches - miranda, pita and rnahybrid - these differentially expressed miRNAs were also predicted to target 3609 bovine genes. Disease and biological function analyses and the KEGG pathway analysis revealed that these targets were statistically enriched in functionality for muscle growth and disease. Our miRNA expression analysis findings from different states of muscle development and aging significantly expand the repertoire of bovine miRNAs now shown to be expressed in muscle and could contribute to further studies on growth and developmental disorders in this tissue type.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Cattle;Female;Gene Library;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Muscle, Skeletal/growth & development/ metabolism;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Angpt1;growth and development;miRNA target prediction
MicroRNAs of rat articular cartilage at different developmental stages identified by Solexa sequencing	J. Sun, et al.	2011	21820522	BACKGROUND: Expression profiles of microRNAs (miRNAs) can shape the repertoire of proteins expressed in development, differentiation and diseases. This study aimed to identify miRNA profile of articular cartilage at different developmental stages in rats. METHODS: Three small RNA libraries were constructed from the femoral head cartilage of Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats at postnatal day 0, day 21 and day 42 and sequenced by a deep sequencing approach. Then a bioinformatics approach was employed to distinguish genuine miRNAs from small RNAs represented in the mass sequencing data. The expression of indicated miRNAs was determined by stem-loop RT-qPCR to valuate the consistency with Solexa sequencing. RESULTS: Two hundred and fifty-eight of 310 known miRNA and miRNA* genes were organized into 91 compact clusters. Two hundred and forty-six miRNAs were detected in all three small RNA libraries of rat articular cartilage. Forty-six, fifty-two and fifty-six miRNA* genes were identified from three small RNA libraries, respectively, and 86 novel miRNA candidate genes were found simultaneously. In addition, 23 known miRNAs were up-regulated (fold change >/= 4); six were down-regulated (fold change </= -4) during articular cartilage development. The predicted targets of differentially expressed miRNAs were locally secreted factors and transcription factors that regulate proliferation and differentiation of chondrocytes. The same expression tendency of indicated miRNAs during articular cartilage development stages was observed by using Solexa sequencing and stem-loop RT-qPCR. CONCLUSION: Our study provided a unique opportunity to decipher how the elaboration of the miRNA repertoire contributes to the development process of articular cartilage.	Aging/genetics;Animals;Cartilage, Articular/ metabolism;Computational Biology;Disease Models, Animal;Femur/ chemistry;Gene Expression Profiling;Hindlimb/ chemistry;Inverted Repeat Sequences;MicroRNAs/analysis/ genetics;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Up-Regulation
Long non-coding RNA LOC100129148 functions as an oncogene in human nasopharyngeal carcinoma by targeting miR-539-5p	K. Y. Sun, et al.	2017	28328537	Emerging studies have shown that long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) play critical roles in carcinogenesis and progression, including human nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC). The correlation between lncRNAs expression and NPC development has not been well identified in the recent literature. Recently, high-through put analysis reveals that LOC100129148 is highly expressed in NPC. However, whether the aberrant expression of LOC100129148 in NPC is corrected with tumorigenesis or prognosis has not been investigated. Herein, we identified that LOC100129148 was up-regulated in NPC tissues and cell lines, and higher expression of LOC100129148 resulted in a markedly poorer survival time. Over-expressed LOC100129148 favored, but silenced LOC100129148 hampered cell proliferation in NPC cells. Additionally, LOC100129148 enhanced the KLF12 expression through functioning as a competitive 'sponge' for miR-539-5p. Thus, our study reports a novel mechanism underlying NPC carcinogenesis, and provides a potential novel diagnosis and treatment biomarker for NPC.	Klf12;Loc100129148;hsa-miRNA-539-5p (miR-539-5p);nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC);tumorigenesis
Activation of Cdk5/p25 and tau phosphorylation following chronic brain hypoperfusion in rats involves microRNA-195 down-regulation	L. H. Sun, et al.	2015	26118667	Chronic brain hypoperfusion (CBH) is a common clinical feature of Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia, but the underlying molecular mechanism is unclear. Our previous study reported that the down-regulation of microRNA-195 (miR-195) promotes amyloidogenesis via regulation of amyloid precursor protein and beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) expression at the post-transcriptional level in CBH rats with bilateral common carotid artery occlusion (2VO). CBH owing to unilateral common carotid artery occlusion (UCCAO) increases tau phosphorylation levels at multiple phosphorylation sites in the brain, but the molecular mechanism is poorly understood. The purpose of this study was to investigate whether miR-195 could both deregulate amyloid metabolism and indirectly deregulate tau phosphorylation in CBH. We observed that 2VO leads to tau hyperphosphorylation at Ser202/Thr205, Ser262, Thr231, and Ser422 and to the conversion from cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5)/p35 to Cdk5/p25 in rat hippocampi. Endogenous miR-195 was knocked down using over-expression of its antisense molecule (pre-AMO-miR-195) via a lentivirus (lenti-pre-AMO-miR-195); this knockdown increased the tau phosphorylation at Ser202/Thr205, Ser262, Thr231, Ser422, and the Cdk5/p25 activation, but over-expression of miR-195 using lenti-pre-miR-195 decreased the tau phosphorylation and Cdk5/p25 activation. Further in vitro studies demonstrated that miR-195 over-expression prevented tau hyperphosphorylation and Cdk5/p35 activity, which were increased by miR-195 inhibition. A dual luciferase reporter assay showed that miR-195 bound to the Cdk5r1 gene, which encodes p35 protein, in the 3'UTR and inhibited p35 expression. We concluded that tau hyperphosphorylation involves the down-regulation of miR-195, which is mediated by Cdk5/p25 activation in 2VO rats. Our findings demonstrated that down-regulation of miR-195 led to increased vulnerability via the regulation of multiple targets. Schematic diagram of miR-195 mediated Abeta aggregation and tau hyperphosphorylation in chronic brain hypoperfusion (CBH). First, CBH results in the elevation of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB), which binds with the promoter sequences of miR-195 and negatively regulates the expression of miR-195. Second, down-regulated miR-195 induces up-regulation of APP and BACE1 and leads to an increase in Abeta levels. Third, some of the elevated Abeta then enter the intracellular space and activate calpain, which promotes the conversion of Cdk5/p35 to Cdk5/p25 and catalyzes the degradation of IkappaB; IkappaB is an inhibitor of NF-kappaB, which activates NF-kappaB. Cdk5/p25 directly phosphorylates Tau. Fourth, down-regulated miR-195 induces an up-regulation of p35, which provides the active substrates of p25. Our findings demonstrated that the down-regulation of miR-195 plays a key role in the increased vulnerability to dementia via the regulation of multiple targets following CBH.	Alzheimer Disease/ metabolism;Animals;Blotting, Western;Brain/blood supply/metabolism;Brain Ischemia/complications/ metabolism;Chronic Disease;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 5/ metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Down-Regulation;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Phosphorylation;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Transfection;tau Proteins/ metabolism;Cdk5;chronic brain hypoperfusion;miR-195;tau hyperphosphorylation
MicroRNA-9 induces defective trafficking of Nav1.1 and Nav1.2 by targeting Navbeta2 protein coding region in rat with chronic brain hypoperfusion	L. H. Sun, et al.	2015	26259688	BACKGROUND: Previous studies have demonstrated that the trafficking defects of Nav1.1/Nav1.2 are involved in the dementia pathophysiology. However, the detailed mechanisms are not fully understood. Moreover, whether the impaired miRNAs regulation linked to dementia is a key player in sodium channel trafficking disturbance remains unclear. The cognitive impairment induced by chronic cerebral ischemia through chronic brain hypoperfusion (CBH) is likely reason to precede dementia. Therefore, our goal in the present study was to examine the role of microRNA-9 (miR-9) in regulating Nav1.1/Nav1.2 trafficking under CBH generated by bilateral common carotid artery occlusion (2VO). RESULTS: The impairment of Nav1.1/Nav1.2 trafficking and decreased expression of Navbeta2 were found in the hippocampi and cortices of rats following CBH generated by bilateral 2VO. MiR-9 was increased in both the hippocampi and cortices of rats following CBH by qRT-PCR. Intriguingly, miR-9 suppressed, while AMO-miR-9 enhanced, the trafficking of Nav1.1/Nav1.2 from cytoplasm to cell membrane. Further study showed that overexpression of miR-9 inhibited the Navbeta2 expression by targeting on its coding sequence (CDS) domain by dual luciferase assay. However, binding-site mutation or miR-masks failed to influence Navbeta2 expression as well as Nav1.1/Nav1.2 trafficking process, indicating that Navbeta2 is a potential target for miR-9. Lentivirus-mediated miR-9 overexpression also inhibited Navbeta2 expression and elicited translocation deficits to cell membrane of Nav1.1/Nav1.2 in rats, whereas injection of lentivirus-mediated miR-9 knockdown could reverse the impaired trafficking of Nav1.1/Nav1.2 triggered by 2VO. CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that miR-9 may play a key role in regulating the process of Nav1.1/Nav1.2 trafficking via targeting on Navbeta2 protein in 2VO rats at post-transcriptional level, and inhibition of miR-9 may be a potentially valuable approach to prevent Nav1.1/Nav1.2 trafficking disturbance induced by CBH.	Animals;Brain Ischemia/genetics/ metabolism;Carotid Artery, Common;Cerebral Cortex/metabolism;Chronic Disease;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Genetic Vectors/pharmacology;Hippocampus/metabolism;Lentivirus/genetics;Ligation;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ pharmacology;NAV1.1 Voltage-Gated Sodium Channel/genetics/ metabolism;NAV1.2 Voltage-Gated Sodium Channel/genetics/ metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Oligonucleotides, Antisense/pharmacology;Protein Structure, Tertiary;Protein Transport/ genetics;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Sodium/metabolism;Voltage-Gated Sodium Channel Blockers;Voltage-Gated Sodium Channel beta-2 Subunit/biosynthesis/genetics
miR-342-5p decreases ankyrin G levels in Alzheimer's disease transgenic mouse models	X. Sun, et al.	2014	24440716	MicroRNA alterations and axonopathy have been reported in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and in AD mouse models. We now report that miR-342-5p is upregulated in APP/PS1, PS1DeltaE9, and PS1-M146V transgenic AD mice, and that this upregulation is mechanistically linked to elevated beta-catenin, c-Myc, and interferon regulatory factor-9. The increased miR-342-5p downregulates the expression of ankyrin G (AnkG), a protein that is known to play a critical role at the axon initial segment. Thus, a specific miRNA alteration may contribute to AD axonopathy by downregulating AnkG.	Alzheimer Disease/genetics/ metabolism;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/genetics;Animals;Ankyrins/genetics/ metabolism;Axons/metabolism;Cells, Cultured;Humans;Interferon-Stimulated Gene Factor 3, gamma Subunit/genetics/metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Presenilin-1/genetics;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-myc/genetics/metabolism;beta Catenin/genetics/metabolism
Expression and regulation of microRNA-29a and microRNA-29c in early diabetic rat cataract formation	Y. Sun, et al.	2016	28003969	AIM: To determine the role of microRNA (miRNA)-29a and miRNA-29c in the regulation of apoptosis in early rat diabetic cataract formation. METHODS: Streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats were used in the study. The expression level of miRNA-29a, miRNA-29c, and BCL2-modifying factor (BMF) in lens epithelial cells (LECs) samples were measured using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Prediction algorithms of miRanda, TargetScan 6.2, and mirRDB to perform a miRNA gene network analysis were used for the potential miRNA-29a and miRNA-29c targets. RESULTS: The miRNA-29a and miRNA-29c expression levels were all significantly lower in the control group compared to the 2 and 4wk diabetic samples (P<0.01). The network analysis indicated that one miRNA-29a and miRNA-29c targets was BMF. There was significantly higher expression of BMF mRNA compared to the normal controls (P<0.01). CONCLUSION: Apoptosis occurs in rat LECs following high blood glucose exposure. It is likely that apoptosis during diabetic cataract formation involves the decreased expression of miRNA-29a and miRNA-29c and the increased expression of BMF.	BCL2-modifying factor;apoptosis;diabetic cataract;microRNA-29a;microRNA-29c
Meeting report: American Aging Association 40th Annual Meeting, Raleigh, North Carolina, June 3-6, 2011	M. Swan	2011	21851178	The focus of the 2011 American Aging Association meeting was emerging concepts in the mechanisms of aging. Many of the usual topics in aging were covered, such as dietary restriction (DR), inflammation, stress resistance, homeostasis and proteasome activity, sarcopenia, and neural degeneration. There was also discussion of newer methods, such as microRNAs and genome sequencing, that have been employed to investigate gene expression variance with aging and genetic signatures of longevity. Aging as a field continues to mature, including the following areas: Using a systems approach to tracing conserved pathways across organisms; sharpening definitions of sarcopenia, frailty, and health span; and distinguishing interventions by age tier (early-onset versus late-onset). A preconference session on late-onset intervention concluded that there are numerous benefits to deriving such interventions. Conference talks applied the biology of aging in a translational manner to intervention development. Using an individual's own stem cells to regenerate organs for transplantation and as a cell source for cellular therapies could be a powerful near-term solution to disease. Several proposed interventions were pharmaceutical, myostatin inhibition, losartan, Janus kinase (JAK) pathway inhibitors, and enalapril for frailty and sarcopenia, and metformin to promote the Nrf2 antiinflammation response. In DR, protein restriction was found to be better than general calorie restriction. Short-term fasting may be helpful in chemotherapy, surgery, and acute stress, simultaneously increasing the killing of cancer cells by chemotherapy, while improving the survival of normal cells. Immune system interventions remain elusive, although statins may help to improve cellular senescence promoted bacterial infection. Engineered enzymes may be useful in lysosomal catabolism. Dietary restriction mimetics, most promisingly involving target of rapamycin (TOR; TORC1 inhibition and rapamycin), may be more feasible than dietary restriction.	Aging/drug effects/genetics/immunology/ physiology;Amino Acids/deficiency;Animals;Caloric Restriction;Endocrine System/drug effects/metabolism;Fasting;Humans;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Mole Rats;North Carolina;Oxidative Stress/drug effects;Precision Medicine;Sirolimus/pharmacology;Societies, Medical;Stem Cells/drug effects/metabolism;Transcription Factors/metabolism;Translational Medical Research
miR-380-5p represses p53 to control cellular survival and is associated with poor outcome in MYCN-amplified neuroblastoma	A. Swarbrick, et al.	2010	20871609	Inactivation of the p53 tumor suppressor pathway allows cell survival in times of stress and occurs in many human cancers; however, normal embryonic stem cells and some cancers such as neuroblastoma maintain wild-type human TP53 and mouse Trp53 (referred to collectively as p53 herein). Here we describe a miRNA, miR-380-5p, that represses p53 expression via a conserved sequence in the p53 3' untranslated region (UTR). miR-380-5p is highly expressed in mouse embryonic stem cells and neuroblastomas, and high expression correlates with poor outcome in neuroblastomas with neuroblastoma derived v-myc myelocytomatosis viral-related oncogene (MYCN) amplification. miR-380 overexpression cooperates with activated HRAS oncoprotein to transform primary cells, block oncogene-induced senescence and form tumors in mice. Conversely, inhibition of endogenous miR-380-5p in embryonic stem or neuroblastoma cells results in induction of p53, and extensive apoptotic cell death. In vivo delivery of a miR-380-5p antagonist decreases tumor size in an orthotopic mouse model of neuroblastoma. We demonstrate a new mechanism of p53 regulation in cancer and stem cells and uncover a potential therapeutic target for neuroblastoma.	3' Untranslated Regions;Animals;Apoptosis;Binding Sites;DNA Damage;Female;Gene Amplification;Humans;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ physiology;N-Myc Proto-Oncogene Protein;Neuroblastoma/genetics/ pathology;Nuclear Proteins/ genetics;Oncogene Proteins/ genetics;Oncogenes;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ antagonists & inhibitors/physiology
The expression and function of microRNAs in chondrogenesis and osteoarthritis	T. E. Swingler, et al.	2012	22143896	OBJECTIVE: To use an in vitro model of chondrogenesis to identify microRNAs (miRNAs) with a functional role in cartilage homeostasis. METHODS: The expression of miRNAs was measured in the ATDC5 cell model of chondrogenesis using microarray and was verified using quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. MicroRNA expression was localized by in situ hybridization. Predicted miRNA target genes were validated using 3'-untranslated region-Luc reporter plasmids containing either wild-type sequences or mutants of the miRNA target sequence. Signaling through the Smad pathway was measured using a (CAGA)(12) -Luc reporter. RESULTS: The expression of several miRNAs was regulated during chondrogenesis. These included 39 miRNAs that are coexpressed with miRNA-140 (miR-140), which is known to be involved in cartilage homeostasis and osteoarthritis (OA). Of these miRNAs, miR-455 resides within an intron of COL27A1 that encodes a cartilage collagen. When human OA cartilage was compared with cartilage obtained from patients with femoral neck fractures, the expression of both miR-140-5p and miR-455-3p was increased in OA cartilage. In situ hybridization showed miR-455-3p expression in the developing limbs of chicks and mice and in human OA cartilage. The expression of miR-455-3p was regulated by transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) ligands, and miRNA regulated TGFbeta signaling. ACVR2B, SMAD2, and CHRDL1 were direct targets of miR-455-3p and may mediate its functional impact on TGFbeta signaling. CONCLUSION: MicroRNA-455 is expressed during chondrogenesis and in adult articular cartilage, where it can regulate TGFbeta signaling, suppressing the Smad2/3 pathway. Diminished signaling through this pathway during the aging process and in OA chondrocytes is known to contribute to cartilage destruction. We propose that the increased expression of miR-455 in OA exacerbates this process and contributes to disease pathology.	3T3 Cells;Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Animals;Cartilage, Articular/ metabolism/pathology;Cells, Cultured;Chondrocytes/ metabolism/pathology;Chondrogenesis/ physiology;Female;Hip Joint/ metabolism/pathology;Humans;Male;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Osteoarthritis, Hip/genetics/ metabolism/pathology
MicroRNA expression profiling in patients with lamin A/C-associated muscular dystrophy	N. Sylvius, et al.	2011	21840938	Mutations in the lamin A/C gene (LMNA) cause several disorders referred to as laminopathies, which include premature aging syndromes, lipodystrophy, and striated muscle disorders. There is evidence that lamin A/C plays a role in gene expression. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short noncoding RNAs regulating mRNAs involved in various biological processes, including the pathophysiology of striated muscles. Here, we profiled the expression of the miRNA transcriptome in skeletal muscle from patients with LMNA-related muscular dystrophy. Results show that control and patient groups can be distinguished based on their miRNA expression profile. Sixteen miRNAs are significantly dysregulated in patients compared with controls. Pathway enrichment analysis in the predicted targets of these miRNAs revealed pathways involved in muscle repair, such as MAPK, transforming growth factor-beta, and Wnt signaling. Interestingly, 9 of these miRNAs (hsa-miR-100, -127-3p, -148a, -136*, -192, -335, -376c, -489, and -502-3p) are highly expressed in fetal muscle, suggesting that the fetal miRNA gene program mediates a regenerative process. Overexpression of these miRNAs in C2C12 mouse myoblasts revealed that 3 of them (miR-100, -192, and -335) participate in muscle proliferation and differentiation. We identified target genes that likely mediate this effect, which include the calcineurin gene PPP3CA. Our findings are the first to demonstrate that miRNA expression is affected in laminopathies.	Animals;Cell Differentiation;Cell Proliferation;Gene Expression;Humans;Lamin Type A/ genetics;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/physiology;Muscle, Skeletal/metabolism;Muscular Dystrophies/ genetics/pathology;Up-Regulation
MicroRNA-34a regulates the longevity-associated protein SIRT1 in coronary artery disease: effect of statins on SIRT1 and microRNA-34a expression	T. Tabuchi, et al.	2012	22364258	Endothelial senescence is thought to play a role in CAD (coronary artery disease). miR-34a (microRNA-34a) and other SIRT1 (silent information regulator 1)-related miRs have recently been found to target SIRT1 leading to endothelial senescence. In the present study, we investigated whether SIRT1-related miRs, including miR-9, miR-34a, miR-132, miR-181a, miR-195, miR-199a, miR-199b and miR-204, and SIRT1 were expressed in EPCs (endothelial progenitor cells) obtained from patients with CAD, and whether statins (atorvastatin or rosuvastatin) affected these levels. To determine the effects of miR-34a on SIRT1, cultured EPCs transfected with miR-34a were analysed for total SIRT1 protein levels. EPCs were obtained from 70 patients with CAD and 48 subjects without CAD. Patients with CAD were randomized to 8 months of treatment with atorvastatin or rosuvastatin. EPCs were obtained from peripheral blood at baseline and after 8 months of statin therapy. Levels of miRs and SIRT1 in EPCs were measured by real-time RT-PCR (reverse transcription-PCR) and FACS. Functional approaches to miR-34a have shown that transfection of miR-34a into EPCs resulted in regulation of SIRT1 expression. Levels of miR-34a were higher in the CAD group than in the non-CAD group, whereas levels of SIRT1 protein were lower in the CAD group than in the non-CAD group. There were no significant differences in other miRs (miR-9, miR-132, miR-181a, miR-195, miR-199a, miR-199b and miR-204) between the two groups. Levels of miR-34a were mildly negatively correlated with SIRT1 protein levels. A randomized clinical study has shown that the atorvastatin group had markedly decreased miR-34a levels and increased SIRT1 levels, whereas the rosuvastatin group showed no change in these levels. Levels of other miRs remained unchanged in the atorvastatin and rosuvastatin groups. In conclusion the results of the present study suggest that miR-34a may regulate SIRT1 expression in EPCs and that atorvastatin up-regulates SIRT1 expression via inhibition of miR-34a, possibly contributing to the beneficial effects of atorvastatin on endothelial function in CAD.	Aged;Atorvastatin Calcium;Cell Count;Cell Movement/drug effects;Cells, Cultured;Coronary Artery Disease/blood/drug therapy/ genetics;Endothelial Cells/drug effects/pathology;Female;Fluorobenzenes/pharmacology/therapeutic use;Gene Expression Regulation/ drug effects;Heptanoic Acids/pharmacology/therapeutic use;Humans;Hydroxymethylglutaryl-CoA Reductase Inhibitors/ pharmacology/therapeutic use;Lipids/blood;Longevity/drug effects/ genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Oxidative Stress/drug effects;Pyrimidines/pharmacology/therapeutic use;Pyrroles/pharmacology/therapeutic use;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Rosuvastatin Calcium;Sirtuin 1/ genetics/metabolism;Sulfonamides/pharmacology/therapeutic use;Transfection
The NetAge database: a compendium of networks for longevity, age-related diseases and associated processes	R. Tacutu, et al.	2010	20186480	Hundreds of genes and miRNAs have been identified as being involved in the determination of longevity, aging patterns and in the development of age-related diseases (ARDs). The interplay between these genes as well as the role of miRNAs in the context of protein-protein interaction networks has as yet been poorly addressed. This work was undertaken in order to integrate the data accumulated in the field, from a network-based perspective. The results are organized in the NetAge database-an online database and network analysis tools for biogerontological research ( http://www.netage-project.org ). The NetAge database contains gene sets and miRNA-regulated PPI networks for longevity, ARDs and aging-associated processes, and also common signatures (overlapping networks). The database is available through the NetAge website, which provides the necessary bioinformatics tools for searching and browsing the networks, as well as showing network info and statistics. By making these resources available online, we hope to provide the scientific community with a new, network-oriented platform for biogerontological research, and encourage greater participation in the systems biology of aging.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Computational Biology/ methods;Databases, Factual;Gene Regulatory Networks;Humans;Internet;Longevity/ genetics;MicroRNAs/genetics;Protein Interaction Mapping/methods;Software;User-Computer Interface
MicroRNA-regulated protein-protein interaction networks: how could they help in searching for pro-longevity targets?	R. Tacutu, et al.	2010	20367577	In spite of enormous efforts and accumulated knowledge, our capabilities for tackling aging and age-related diseases (ARDs), and ultimately to promote longevity, are still very modest. What is lacking--essential data on key players, efficient analytic tools, or both? Here we discuss how the existing data may be integrated and analyzed in the context of microRNA (miRNA)-regulated protein-protein interaction networks. The proposed model highlighted: (1) The strong molecular links between aging, longevity, and ARDs; (2) the possibility and even the preferability of initiating longevity-promoting interventions in adult life; (3) the potentially important role for miRNA- (or small interfering RNA [siRNA]) mediated targeting of certain genes with features of antagonistic pleiotropy; (4) the superiority of systemic interventions to the common single-target approach in curing ARDs and promoting longevity.	Adult;Animals;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Regulatory Networks/physiology;Genetic Association Studies/methods;Humans;Longevity/ genetics;Mice;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Protein Binding/drug effects;Protein Interaction Mapping;Proteins/ metabolism;Validation Studies as Topic
Molecular links between cellular senescence, longevity and age-related diseases - a systems biology perspective	R. Tacutu, et al.	2011	22184282	The role of cellular senescence (CS) in age-related diseases (ARDs) is a quickly emerging topic in aging research. Our comprehensive data mining revealed over 250 genes tightly associated with CS. Using systems biology tools, we found that CS is closely interconnected with aging, longevity and ARDs, either by sharing common genes and regulators or by protein-protein interactions and eventually by common signaling pathways. The most enriched pathways across CS, ARDs and aging-associated conditions (oxidative stress and chronic inflammation) are growth-promoting pathways and the pathways responsible for cell-extracellular matrix interactions and stress response. Of note, the patterns of evolutionary conservation of CS and cancer genes showed a high degree of similarity, suggesting the co-evolution of these two phenomena. Moreover, cancer genes and microRNAs seem to stand at the crossroad between CS and ARDs. Our analysis also provides the basis for new predictions: the genes common to both cancer and other ARD(s) are highly likely candidates to be involved in CS and vice versa. Altogether, this study shows that there are multiple links between CS, aging, longevity and ARDs, suggesting a common molecular basis for all these conditions. Modulating CS may represent a potential pro-longevity and anti-ARDs therapeutic strategy.	Alzheimer Disease;Atherosclerosis;Cell Aging/ physiology;Chronic Disease;Computational Biology;Databases, Factual;Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2;Gene Expression Regulation/physiology;Humans;Inflammation;Longevity/ physiology;MicroRNAs;Neoplasms;Oxidative Stress;Protein Interaction Maps;Signal Transduction;Systems Biology
MicroRNA profiling in migraine without aura: pilot study	E. Tafuri, et al.	2015	26333279	BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short, non-coding RNAs whose deregulation has been shown in several human diseases, including pain states and diseases associated with increased cardiovascular (CV) risk. This study aimed at identifying differentially expressed circulating miRNAs in patients with 'migraine without aura' (MO), a pain condition whose link with CV risk remains debated. METHODS: Fifteen female MO patients and 13 matching healthy controls underwent a circulating microRNA expression profiling. MiR-22, miR-26a, miR-26b, miR-27b, miR-29b, let-7b, miR-181a, miR-221, miR-30b, and miR-30e were selected for validation by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. RESULTS: In migraineurs versus controls, four miRNAs were differentially expressed: miR-27b was significantly up-regulated (q < 0.004), while miR-181a, let-7b, and miR-22 were significantly down-regulated (q </= 0.01). MiR-22 and let-7b down-regulation was also confirmed in circulating blood monocytes. A logistic regression model based on microRNA expression profile showed a high accuracy for identifying migraine (AUC of ROC curve: 0.956; P < 0.001). CONCLUSION: A specific circulating miRNAs profile is associated with migraine without aura. Remarkably, the same miRNAs are known to be modulated in the setting of atherosclerosis and stroke in humans. This study represents a first step towards further characterization of MO diagnosis/pathophysiology, also in relation to its link with cardiovascular risk.	Adult;Biomarkers/blood/metabolism;Case-Control Studies;Down-Regulation;Female;Humans;Logistic Models;MicroRNAs/blood/genetics/ metabolism;Microarray Analysis;Middle Aged;Migraine without Aura/blood/ genetics/metabolism;Pilot Projects;ROC Curve;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction/methods;Risk Factors;Cardiovascular risk;microRNA;migraine;migraine without aura
Genetic analysis of alpha-synuclein 3' untranslated region and its corresponding microRNAs in relation to Parkinson's compared to dementia with Lewy bodies	L. Tagliafierro, et al.	2017	28431219	INTRODUCTION: The alpha-synuclein (SNCA) gene has been implicated in the etiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). METHODS: A computational analysis of SNCA 3' untranslated region to identify potential microRNA (miRNA) binding sites and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to determine their expression in isogenic induced pluripotent stem cell-derived dopaminergic and cholinergic neurons as a model of PD and DLB, respectively, were performed. In addition, we performed a deep sequencing analysis of the SNCA 3' untranslated region of autopsy-confirmed cases of PD, DLB, and normal controls, followed by genetic association analysis of the identified variants. RESULTS: We identified four miRNA binding sites and observed a neuronal-type-specific expression profile for each miRNA in the different isogenic induced pluripotent stem cell-derived dopaminergic and cholinergic neurons. Furthermore, we found that the short structural variant rs777296100-polyT was moderately associated with DLB but not with PD. DISCUSSION: We suggest that the regulation of SNCA expression through miRNAs is neuronal-type-specific and possibly plays a part in the phenotypic heterogeneity of synucleinopathies. Furthermore, genetic variability in the SNCA gene may contribute to synucleinopathies in a pathology-specific manner.	Dlb;Pd;Snca;Snca 3' utr;iPSC-derived neurons;miRNA
Inference of Target Gene Regulation via miRNAs during Cell Senescence by Using the MiRaGE Server	Y. H. Taguchi	2012	23185711	miRNAs have recently been shown to play a key role in cell senescence, by downregulating target genes. Thus, inference of those miRNAs that critically downregulate target genes is important. However, inference of target gene regulation by miRNAs is difficult and is often achieved simply by investigating significant upregulation during cell senescence. Here, we inferred the regulation of target genes by miRNAs, using the recently developed MiRaGE server, together with the change in miRNA expression during fibroblast IMR90 cell senescence. We revealed that the simultaneous consideration of 2 criteria, the up(down)regulation and the down(up) regulatiion of target genes, yields more feasible miRNA, i.e., those that are most frequently reported to be down/upregulated and/or to possess biological backgrounds that induce cell senescence. Thus, when analyzing miRNAs that critically contribute to cell senescence, it is important to consider the level of target gene regulation, simultaneously with the change in miRNA expression.	bioinformatics;expression regulation;mirna;senescence;target gene
MicroRNAs in Cancer: the 22nd Hiroshima Cancer Seminar/the 4th Japanese Association for RNA Interference Joint International Symposium, 30 August 2012, Grand Prince Hotel Hiroshima	H. Tahara, et al.	2013	23487440	The joint international symposium of the 22nd Hiroshima Cancer Seminar and the 4th Japanese Association for RNA Interference focused on a pivotal role of microRNAs in carcinogenesis, progression and therapy of human cancer. Mammalian immune regulator MCPIP1 (Zc3h12a) RNase acts as a novel suppressor of microRNA activity and biogenesis, suggesting the involvement of MCPIP1 in the alteration of microRNA biogenesis in tumorigenesis. Gene set enrichment analysis and functional assignment of microRNAs via enrichment analysis enable the prediction of microRNA activities from mRNA expression data by combining rank-based enrichment analysis and weighted evaluation of microRNA-mRNA interactions. MiR-124 and miR-203 function as tumor-suppressor microRNAs silenced by DNA methylation in hepatocellular carcinoma. Stella-induced DNA hypomethylation would confer the pathogenic function of DNA hypomethylation in cancer. Senescence-associated microRNA, miR-22, suppresses tumor growth and metastasis in vivo in a murine breast cancer model, and exosomal senescence-associated microRNA may affect the tumor microenvironment. The therapeutic potential of microRNAs for preventing and treating lung cancer using the Kras(LSL-G12D/+);p53(LSL-R172H/+)mouse model suggests that miR-34 may be useful in sensitizing tumors to other conventional therapeutics. MiR-1 and miR-133a cluster may function as tumor suppressors regulating novel pathways in human cancers. The down-regulation of miR-148a is implicated in invasion of gastric cancer, while high miR-21 expression in colorectal cancer is associated with poor survival. Neutral sphingomyelinase 2 regulates exosomal microRNA secretion and promotes angiogenesis within the tumor microenvironment as well as metastasis; in particular, the exosomal miR-210 secretion by neutral sphingomyelinase 2 confers the formation of the tumor vessel network.	Animals;Breast Neoplasms/genetics/metabolism;DNA Methylation;Disease Progression;Female;Genes, Tumor Suppressor;Humans;Japan;Liver Neoplasms/genetics/metabolism;Lung Neoplasms/prevention & control/therapy;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Neoplasms/genetics/ metabolism;Neoplasms, Experimental/genetics/metabolism;Neovascularization, Pathologic/metabolism;RNA Interference;Ribonucleases/metabolism;Transcription Factors/ metabolism
Reduction of type IV collagen by upregulated miR-29 in normal elderly mouse and klotho-deficient, senescence-model mouse	M. Takahashi, et al.	2012	23139829	MicroRNA (miRNA), a small non-coding RNA that functions as a mediator in gene silencing, plays important roles in gene regulation in various vital functions and activities. Here we show that the miR-29 members are upregulated in klotho-deficient [klotho(-/-)] mice, a senescence-model animal, and also in normal elderly ICR mice relative to wild-type littermates and young ICR mice. In addition, levels of type IV collagen, a major component of basement membranes and a putative target of miR-29, were lower in klotho(-/-) and elderly ICR mice than in wild-type littermates and young ICR mice. RNA degradation mediated by miR-29 may participate in the suppression of type IV collagen, both in vivo and in vitro. Taken together, our current findings suggest that the miR-29 upregulated in aging may be involved in the downregulation of type IV collagen, leading to a possible weakening of the basal membrane in senescent tissues, and miR-29 may be a useful molecular marker of senescence.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Collagen Type IV/ metabolism;Creatinine/blood;Deoxyguanosine/analogs & derivatives/blood;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Gene Silencing;Genes, Reporter;Glucuronidase/ deficiency/metabolism;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Lysine/blood;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred ICR;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Models, Biological;Up-Regulation/ genetics
Oncogenic role of miR-17-92 cluster in anaplastic thyroid cancer cells	S. Takakura, et al.	2008	18429962	Micro RNAs (miRNAs) are non-coding small RNAs and constitute a novel class of negative gene regulators that are found in both plants and animals. Several miRNAs play crucial roles in cancer cell growth. To identify miRNAs specifically deregulated in anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC) cells, we performed a comprehensive analysis of miRNA expressions in ARO cells and primary thyrocytes using miRNA microarrays. MiRNAs in a miR-17-92 cluster were overexpressed in ARO cells. We confirmed the overexpression of those miRNAs by Northern blot analysis in ARO and FRO cells. In 3 of 6 clinical ATC samples, miR-17-3p and miR-17-5p were robustly overexpressed in cancer lesions compared to adjacent normal tissue. To investigate the functional role of these miRNAs in ATC cells, ARO and FRO cells were transfected with miRNA inhibitors, antisense oligonucleotides containing locked nucleic acids. Suppression of miR-17-3p caused complete growth arrest, presumably due to caspase activation resulting in apoptosis. MiR-17-5p or miR-19a inhibitor also induced strong growth reduction, but only miR-17-5p inhibitor led to cellular senescence. On the other hand, miR-18a inhibitor only moderately attenuated the cell growth. Thus, we have clarified functional differences among the members of the cluster in ATC cells. In conclusion, these findings suggest that the miR-17-92 cluster plays an important role in certain types of ATCs and could be a novel target for ATC treatment.	Apoptosis/physiology;Blotting, Northern;Blotting, Western;Carcinoma/ genetics/pathology;Caspases/metabolism;Cell Aging;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Cell Transformation, Neoplastic;Down-Regulation;Enzyme Activation;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/ genetics;Humans;Membrane Proteins/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Oligonucleotides, Antisense/pharmacology;Oncogenes/ genetics;PTEN Phosphohydrolase/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Retinoblastoma Protein/metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Thyroid Neoplasms/ genetics/pathology
Integration of cap analysis of gene expression and chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis on array reveals genome-wide androgen receptor signaling in prostate cancer cells	K. Takayama, et al.	2011	20890304	The androgen receptor (AR) is a critical transcriptional factor that contributes to the development and the progression of prostate cancer (PCa) by regulating the transcription of various target genes. Genome-wide screening of androgen target genes provides useful information to understand a global view of AR-mediated gene network in PCa. In this study, we performed 5'-cap analysis of gene expression (CAGE) to determine androgen-regulated transcription start sites (TSSs) and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) on array (ChIP-chip) analysis to identify AR binding sites (ARBSs) and histone H3 acetylated (AcH3) sites in the human genome. CAGE determined 13 110 distinct, androgen-regulated TSSs (P<0.01), and ChIP-chip analysis identified 2872 androgen-dependent ARBSs (P<1e-5) and 25 945 AcH3 sites (P<1e-4). Both androgen-regulated coding genes and noncoding RNAs, including microRNAs (miRNAs) were determined as androgen target genes. Besides prototypic androgen-regulated TSSs in annotated gene promoter regions, there are many androgen-dependent TSSs that are widely distributed throughout the genome, including those in antisense (AS) direction of RefSeq genes. Several pairs of sense/antisense promoters were newly identified within single RefSeq gene regions. The integration of CAGE and ChIP-chip analyses successfully identified a cluster of androgen-inducible miRNAs, as exemplified by the miR-125b-2 cluster on chromosome 21. Notably, the number of androgen-upregulated genes was larger in LNCaP cells treated with R1881 for 24 h than for 6 h, and the percentage of androgen-upregulated genes accompanied with adjacent ARBSs was also much higher in cells treated with R1881 for 24 h than 6 h. On the basis of the Oncomine database, the majority of androgen-upregulated genes containing adjacent ARBSs and CAGE tag clusters in our study were previously confirmed as androgen target genes in PCa. The integrated high-throughput genome analyses of CAGE and ChIP-chip provide useful information for elucidating the AR-mediated transcriptional network that contributes to the development and progression of PCa.	Acetylation;Androgens/pharmacology;Binding Sites/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Chromatin Immunoprecipitation/ methods;Dihydrotestosterone/pharmacology;Gene Expression Profiling/ methods;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/drug effects;Genome, Human/genetics;Genomics/methods;Histones/metabolism;Humans;Male;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis/ methods;Promoter Regions, Genetic/genetics;Prostatic Neoplasms/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Receptors, Androgen/ genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction/genetics;Transcription Initiation Site
Age-associated downregulation of vasohibin-1 in vascular endothelial cells	E. Takeda, et al.	2016	27325558	Vasohibin-1 (VASH1) is an angiogenesis-inhibiting factor synthesized by endothelial cells (ECs) and it also functions to increase stress tolerance of ECs, which function is critical for the maintenance of vascular integrity. Here, we examined whether the expression of VASH1 would be affected by aging. We passaged human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) and observed that VASH1 was downregulated in old HUVECs. This decrease in VASH1 expression with aging was confirmed in mice. To explore the mechanism of this downregulation, we compared the expression of microRNAs between old and young HUVECs by performing microarray analysis. Among the top 20 microRNAs that were expressed at a higher level in old HUVECs, the third highest microRNA, namely miR-22-3p, had its binding site on the 3' UTR of VASH1 mRNA. Experiments with microRNA mimic and anti-miR revealed that miR-22-3p was involved at least in part in the downregulation of VASH1 in ECs during replicative senescence. We then clarified the significance of this defective expression of VASH1 in the vasculature. When a cuff was placed around the femoral arteries of wild-type mice and VASH1-null mice, neointimal formation was augmented in the VASH1-null mice accompanied by an increase in adventitial angiogenesis, macrophage accumulation in the adventitia, and medial/neointimal proliferating cells. These results indicate that in replicative senescence, the downregulation of VASH1 expression in ECs was caused, at least in part, by the alteration of microRNA expression. Such downregulation of VASH1 might be involved in the acceleration of age-associated vascular diseases.	Animals;Apolipoproteins E/deficiency/metabolism;Atherosclerosis/metabolism/pathology;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Cycle Proteins/deficiency/ genetics/metabolism;Down-Regulation/ genetics;Endothelial Cells/ metabolism;Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells/metabolism;Humans;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Neointima/metabolism;aging;angiogenesis;endothelial cell;replicative senescence
Lifespan and reproduction in brain-specific miR-29-knockdown mouse	T. Takeda and H. Tanabe	2016	26902119	The microRNA miR-29 is widely distributed and highly expressed in adult mouse brain during the mouse's lifetime. We recently created conditional mutant mice whose miR-29 was brain-specifically knocked down through overexpression of an antisense RNA transgene against miR-29. To explore a role for brain miR-29 in maximizing organismal fitness, we assessed somatic growth, reproduction, and lifespan in the miR-29-knockdown (KD) mice and their wild-type (WT) littermates. The KD mice were developmentally indistinguishable from WT mice with respect to gross morphology and physical activity. Fertility testing revealed that KD males were subfertile, whereas KD females were hyperfertile, only in terms of reproductive success, when compared to their gender-matched WT correspondents. Another phenotypic difference between KD and WT animals appeared in their lifespan data; KD males displayed an overall increasing tendency in post-reproductive survival relative to WT males. In contrast, KD females were prone to shorter lifespans than WT females. These results clarify that brain-targeted miR-29 knockdown affects both lifespan and reproduction in a gender-dependent manner, and moreover that the reciprocal responsiveness to the miR-29 knockdown between these two phenotypes in both genders closely follow life-course models based on the classical trade-off prediction wherein elaborate early-life energetic investment in reproduction entails accelerated late-life declines in survival, and vice versa. Thus, this study identified miR-29 as the first mammalian miRNA that is directly implicated in the lifetime trade-off between the two major fitness components, lifespan and reproduction.	Animals;Brain/ physiology;Female;Fertility/genetics;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Longevity/genetics;Male;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Mutant Strains;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Reproduction/genetics;Aging;Brain;Lifespan;MicroRNA-29;Reproduction
Novel Mad2-targeting miR-493-3p controls mitotic fidelity and cancer cells' sensitivity to paclitaxel	M. Tambe, et al.	2016	26943585	The molecular pathways that contribute to the proliferation and drug response of cancer cells are highly complex and currently insufficiently characterized. We have identified a previously unknown microRNA-based mechanism that provides cancer cells means to stimulate tumorigenesis via increased genomic instability and, at the same time, evade the action of clinically utilized microtubule drugs. We demonstrate miR-493-3p to be a novel negative regulator of mitotic arrest deficient-2 (MAD2), an essential component of the spindle assembly checkpoint that monitors the fidelity of chromosome segregation. The microRNA targets the 3' UTR of Mad2 mRNA thereby preventing translation of the Mad2 protein. In cancer cells, overexpression of miR-493-3p induced a premature mitotic exit that led to increased frequency of aneuploidy and cellular senescence in the progeny cells. Importantly, excess of the miR-493-3p conferred resistance of cancer cells to microtubule drugs. In human neoplasms, miR-493-3p and Mad2 expression alterations correlated with advanced ovarian cancer forms and high miR-493-3p levels were associated with reduced survival of ovarian and breast cancer patients with aggressive tumors, especially in the paclitaxel therapy arm. Our results suggest that intratumoral profiling of miR-493-3p and Mad2 levels can have diagnostic value in predicting the efficacy of taxane chemotherapy.	Chromosome Section;Mad2;aneuploidy;miR-493-3p;spindle assembly checkpoint;taxane resistance
MicroRNA-277 modulates the neurodegeneration caused by Fragile X premutation rCGG repeats	H. Tan, et al.	2012	22570635	Fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome (FXTAS), a late-onset neurodegenerative disorder, has been recognized in older male fragile X premutation carriers and is uncoupled from fragile X syndrome. Using a Drosophila model of FXTAS, we previously showed that transcribed premutation repeats alone are sufficient to cause neurodegeneration. MiRNAs are sequence-specific regulators of post-transcriptional gene expression. To determine the role of miRNAs in rCGG repeat-mediated neurodegeneration, we profiled miRNA expression and identified selective miRNAs, including miR-277, that are altered specifically in Drosophila brains expressing rCGG repeats. We tested their genetic interactions with rCGG repeats and found that miR-277 can modulate rCGG repeat-mediated neurodegeneration. Furthermore, we identified Drep-2 and Vimar as functional targets of miR-277 that could modulate rCGG repeat-mediated neurodegeneration. Finally, we found that hnRNP A2/B1, an rCGG repeat-binding protein, can directly regulate the expression of miR-277. These results suggest that sequestration of specific rCGG repeat-binding proteins could lead to aberrant expression of selective miRNAs, which may modulate the pathogenesis of FXTAS by post-transcriptionally regulating the expression of specific mRNAs involved in FXTAS.	Animals;Armadillo Domain Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Drosophila Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Drosophila melanogaster/ genetics;Fragile X Syndrome/ genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Heterogeneous-Nuclear Ribonucleoprotein Group A-B/genetics/metabolism;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Trinucleotide Repeat Expansion/genetics
[Progresses in therapeutic strategies for thymic rejuvenation]	J. X. Tan, et al.	2016	26915325	The thymus is a vital primary lymphoid organ that provides unique microenvironments for the proliferation, differentiation, and maturation of T cells. With advancing age, however, the thymus gradually undergoes age-related involution and reduction in immune function, which are characterized by decreases in tissue size, cellularity, and naive T cell output. This dynamic process leads to the reduced efficacy of the immune system with age and contributes to the increased susceptibility to infection, autoimmune disease, and cancer. In addition, bone marrow transplantation, radio-chemotherapy and virus infection also impair the thymus and give rise to the decline in immune function. Therefore, understanding the molecular mechanisms involved in age-related thymic involution and development of novel therapeutic strategies for thymic rejuvenation have gained considerable interests in recent years. This review emphasizes thymic microenvironments and thymocyte-stromal cell interactions and summarizes our current knowledge about thymic rejuvenation in terms of sex steroid, cytokines, growth factors, hormones, transcription factors, cell graft, and microRNAs. At the end of each discussion, we also highlight unanswered issues and describe possible future research directions.	Aging;Cell Differentiation;Cytokines;Gonadal Steroid Hormones;Hormones;Humans;Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins;Rejuvenation;Stromal Cells;T-Lymphocytes;Thymus Gland
Strong Association of Lipid Metabolism Related MicroRNA Binding Sites Polymorphisms with the Risk of Late Onset Alzheimer's Disease	L. Tan, et al.	2017	27897113	Although altered lipid metabolism has been extensively implicated in the pathogenesis of late onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) through cell biological and epidemiological studies, genetic studies linking lipid metabolism and LOAD are still not well understood. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) exert posttranscriptional down-regulation and their target sequence on the 3' untranslated regions (3'UTR) may be altered by single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). We therefore explore whether the six loci in Clusterin gene (CLU) (rs9331949), Lipoprotein lipase gene (LPL) (rs1059507, rs3200218, rs3208305, rs3735964) and Low-density lipoprotein receptor related protein 6 (LRP6) (rs2160525) could modulate LOAD risk through the alteration of miRNA binding sites. We performed a case-control study of 2338 unrelated subjects (984 cases and 1354 age- and gender-matched controls) in the Northern Han Chinese. We found that the minor C allele in rs9331949 significantly increased the risk of LOAD (P<0.001, OR=1.31, 95% CI=1.14-1.51), even after adjusting for multiple testing. Logistic analysis identified the rs9331949 polymorphism was still strongly associated with LOAD, even in Apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon4 allele noncarrier subgroups. However, the other five loci were not significantly associated with LOAD after Bonferroni adjustment. In conclusion, we have identified that the locus (rs9331949) located in the binding site of 3' UTR of CLU has a strong association with LOAD rather than loci in LPL and LRP6. However, additional independent replication is required for further validation.	Alzheimer's disease;association study;microRNA;polymorphism
Circulating miR-125b as a biomarker of Alzheimer's disease	L. Tan, et al.	2014	24139697	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small RNAs of 21-25 nucleotides that post-transcriptionally regulate gene expressions. Recently, circulating miRNAs have been reported as promising biomarkers for neurodegenerative disorders and processes affecting the central nervous system. This study was conducted to investigate the potential role of serum miRNAs as diagnostic biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD). METHODS: Serum samples were obtained from 105 probable AD patients and 150 age- and gender-matched normal controls. The serum concentrations of miRNAs miR-9, miR-29a, miR-29b, miR-101, miR-125b, and miR-181c were measured with a real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase PCR (qRT-PCR) method. RESULTS: We found both miR-125b and miR-181c were down-regulated while miR-9 was up-regulated in serum of AD patients compared with that of normal controls. Among the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) results, miR-125b alone showed its priority with a specificity up to 68.3% and a sensitivity of 80.8%. Importantly, miR-125b was correlated with the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) in AD patients. CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that serum miR-125b may serve as a useful noninvasive biomarker for AD.	Aged;Alzheimer Disease/ blood/diagnosis/ genetics;Biomarkers/blood;Cohort Studies;Down-Regulation/genetics;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/ genetics;Alzheimer's disease;Biomarker;Diagnosis;MicroRNA;Serum;qRT-PCR
Genome-wide serum microRNA expression profiling identifies serum biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease	L. Tan, et al.	2014	24577456	Recent findings that human serum contains stably expressed microRNAs (miRNAs) have revealed a great potential of serum miRNA signature as disease fingerprints to diagnosis. Here we used genome-wide serum miRNA expression analysis to investigate the value of serum miRNAs as biomarkers for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Illumina HiSeq 2000 sequencing followed by individual quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) assays was used to test the difference in levels of serum miRNAs between 50 AD patients and 50 controls in the screening stages. The detected serum miRNAs then were validated by qRT-PCR in 158 patients and 155 controls. MiR-98-5p, miR-885-5p, miR-483-3p, miR-342-3p, miR-191-5p, and miR-let-7d-5p displayed significantly different expression levels in AD patients compared with controls. Among the 6 miRNAs, miR-342-3p has the best sensitivity (81.5%) and specificity (70.1%) and was correlated to Mini-Mental State Examination score. This study identified six serum miRNAs that distinguish AD patients from healthy controls with high sensitivity and specificity. Serum miRNA panel (or miR-342-3p alone) may serve as a novel, noninvasive biomarker for AD.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ blood/ genetics;Biomarkers/ blood;Cohort Studies;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Genome;Humans;Male;Mental Status Schedule;MicroRNAs/ blood/ genetics;ROC Curve;Sensitivity and Specificity;Statistics, Nonparametric;Alzheimer's disease;biomarker;diagnosis;genome-wide sequencing;microRNA;serum
microRNA profiling in atherosclerosis, diabetes, and migraine	C. Tana, et al.	2017	27560467	microRNAs (miRNAs) are a broad group of endogenous small non-coding molecules that reduce the transcription of mRNA and play a key role in post-transcriptional gene processes. miRNAs are involved in onset and progression of several human disorders such as infectious and immune non-infectious diseases, cancers, metabolic and cardiovascular disorders. They regulate the expression of gene targets (e.g. oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes) and act as gene repressors with mRNA binding and cleavage. The increasing evidence that miRNAs play a key role in the pathogenesis of cardiovascular conditions could radically change the future management approach to these disorders. This review focuses on current knowledge about the influence of miRNAs on cardiovascular disease, with particular regard to common conditions such as atherosclerosis, diabetes and migraine. Key messages miRNAs are a group of endogenous small non-coding RNA segments measuring 19-25 nucleotides that are involved in physiologic processes and onset and progression of disorders such as infectious and immune non-infectious diseases, cancers, metabolic and cardiovascular disorders. miRNAs expression guarantees vascular integrity, by regulating apoptosis, VEGF pathway and VCAM 1 expression (-126), and is involved in atherosclerotic plaque formation process and progression. Hyperglycemia, overt diabetes, and their complications are associated with overexpression of several miRNAs. An altered expression of miRNAs has also been postulated in migraine patients, although only a few preliminary studies have so far been performed with this respect.	atherosclerotic plaque;aura;cardiovascular risk;diabetes;genetics;microRNA;migraine;sampling;treatment
Profiles of extracellular miRNAs in the aqueous humor of glaucoma patients assessed with a microarray system	Y. Tanaka, et al.	2014	24867291	Aqueous humor (AH) is one of the body fluids in the eye, which is known to be related with various ocular diseases, but the complete RNAs characteristic of the AH in patients is not yet known. The aim of this study was, with a microarray analysis, to reveal the disease-related extracellular miRNAs profiles in individual patients AH. 100 mul of AH was collected by anterior chamber paracentesis from 10 glaucoma, 5 cataract, and 5 epiretinal membrane patients. The extracted total RNAs were shorter than 200 nt, and their amount was 5.27 +/- 0.41 ng in average. Among 530.5 +/- 44.6 miRNA types detected in each sample with a microarray detectable 2019 types of matured miRNAs, 172 miRNAs were detected in all 10 glaucoma or control patients. From the glaucoma group, 11 significantly up-regulated and 18 significantly down-regulated miRNAs (P < 0.05 for both) were found to have areas under the curve better than 0.74 in a receiver operating characteristic analysis. They also formed a cluster composed only of glaucoma patients in a hierarchal cluster analysis. AH had a possibility of becoming a source of miRNA that can serve as a biomarker and a therapeutic target.	Aged;Aqueous Humor/ metabolism;Cluster Analysis;Eye/ metabolism/pathology;Female;Glaucoma/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/isolation & purification;Microarray Analysis
MicroRNA-139 modulates Alzheimer's-associated pathogenesis in SAMP8 mice by targeting cannabinoid receptor type 2	Y. Tang, et al.	2017	28218780	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder, and is the most common type of dementia in the elderly population. Growing evidence indicates that microRNAs (miRNAs) play a crucial role in neuroinflammation associated with AD progression. In this study, we analyzed the expression of microRNA-139 (miR-139) as well as the learning and memory function in AD. We observed that the miR-139 expression was significantly higher in the hippocampus of aged senescence accelerated mouse prone 8 (SAMP8) mice (2.92 +/- 0.13) than in the control mice (1.49 +/- 0.08). Likewise, the overexpression of miR-139 by means of hippocampal injection impaired the hippocampus-dependent learning and memory formation. In contrast, the downregulation of miR-139 in mice improved learning and memory function in the mice. The level of cannabinoid receptor type 2 (CB2), a potential target gene of miR-139, was inversely correlated with the miR-139 expression in primary hippocampal cells. Furthermore, we demonstrated that miR-139 inversely modulated the responses to proinflammatory stimuli. Together, our findings demonstrate that miR-139 exerts a pathogenic effect in AD by modulating CB2-meditated neuroinflammatory processes.	Alzheimer Disease/genetics/metabolism/ psychology;Animals;Cells, Cultured;Cytokines/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression Regulation;Hippocampus/ cytology/metabolism/pathology;Humans;Maze Learning;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Receptor, Cannabinoid, CB2/ genetics/metabolism
Time-specific microRNA changes during spinal motoneuron degeneration in adult rats following unilateral brachial plexus root avulsion: ipsilateral vs. contralateral changes	Y. Tang, et al.	2014	25055855	BACKGROUND: Spinal root avulsion induces multiple pathophysiological events consisting of altered levels of specific genes and proteins related to inflammation, apoptosis, and oxidative stress, which collectively result in the death of the affected motoneurons. Recent studies have demonstrated that the gene changes involved in spinal cord injury can be regulated by microRNAs, which are a class of short non-coding RNA molecules that repress target mRNAs post-transcriptionally. With consideration for the time course of the avulsion-induced gene expression patterns within dying motoneurons, we employed microarray analysis to determine whether and how microRNAs are involved in the changes of gene expression induced by pathophysiological events in spinal cord motoneurons. RESULTS: The expression of a total of 3,361 miRNAs in the spinal cord of adult rats was identified. Unilateral root-avulsion resulted in significant alterations in miRNA expression. In the ipsilateral half compared to the contralateral half of the spinal cord, on the 3rd day after the injury, 55 miRNAs were upregulated, and 24 were downregulated, and on the 14th day after the injury, 36 miRNAs were upregulated, and 23 were downregulated. The upregulation of miR-146b-5p and miR-31a-3p and the downregulation of miR-324-3p and miR-484 were observed. Eleven of the miRNAs, including miR-21-5p, demonstrated a sustained increase; however, only miR-466c-3p presented a sustained decrease 3 and 14 days after the injury. More interestingly, 4 of the miRNAs, including miR-18a, were upregulated on the 3rd day but were downregulated on the 14th day after injury.Some of these miRNAs target inflammatory-response genes in the early stage of injury, and others target neurotransmitter transport genes in the intermediate stages of injury. The altered miRNA expression pattern suggests that the MAPK and calcium signaling pathways are consistently involved in the injury response. CONCLUSIONS: This analysis may facilitate the understanding of the time-specific altered expression of a large set of microRNAs in the spinal cord after brachial root avulsion.	Animals;Brachial Plexus Neuropathies/pathology/ physiopathology;Cervical Vertebrae;Disease Progression;Functional Laterality;Gene Expression;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Microarray Analysis;Motor Neurons/pathology/ physiology;Nerve Degeneration/pathology/ physiopathology;Radiculopathy/pathology/ physiopathology;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Spinal Cord/pathology/ physiopathology;Thoracic Vertebrae;Time Factors
Deletion of astroglial Dicer causes non-cell-autonomous neuronal dysfunction and degeneration	J. Tao, et al.	2011	21632951	The endoribonuclease, Dicer, is indispensable for generating the majority of mature microRNAs (miRNAs), which are posttranscriptional regulators of gene expression involved in a wide range of developmental and pathological processes in the mammalian CNS. Although functions of Dicer-dependent miRNA pathways in neurons and oligodendrocytes have been extensively investigated, little is known about the role of Dicer in astrocytes. Here, we report the effect of Cre-loxP-mediated conditional deletion of Dicer selectively from postnatal astroglia on brain development. Dicer-deficient mice exhibited normal motor development and neurological morphology before postnatal week 5. Thereafter, mutant mice invariably developed a rapidly fulminant neurological decline characterized by ataxia, severe progressive cerebellar degeneration, seizures, uncontrollable movements, and premature death by postnatal week 9-10. Integrated transcription profiling, histological, and functional analyses of cerebella showed that deletion of Dicer in cerebellar astrocytes altered the transcriptome of astrocytes to be more similar to an immature or reactive-like state before the onset of neurological symptoms or morphological changes. As a result, critical and mature astrocytic functions including glutamate uptake and antioxidant pathways were substantially impaired, leading to massive apoptosis of cerebellar granule cells and degeneration of Purkinje cells. Collectively, our study demonstrates the critical involvement of Dicer in normal astrocyte maturation and maintenance. Our findings also reveal non-cell-autonomous roles of astrocytic Dicer-dependent pathways in regulating proper neuronal functions and implicate that loss of or dysregulation of astrocytic Dicer-dependent pathways may be involved in neurodegeneration and other neurological disorders.	Animals;Astrocytes/ metabolism/ physiology;Cerebellum/ growth & development/metabolism/ pathology/physiopathology;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/physiology;Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein;Glutamic Acid/metabolism;In Vitro Techniques;Integrases/genetics;Male;Mice;Mice, Neurologic Mutants;Mice, Transgenic;Nerve Degeneration/metabolism/ physiopathology;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics;Patch-Clamp Techniques/methods;Psychomotor Disorders/ genetics/metabolism/ pathology/physiopathology;Purkinje Cells/pathology;Ribonuclease III/genetics/ physiology;Signal Transduction/genetics/physiology
Crucial Role of miR-433 in Regulating Cardiac Fibrosis	L. Tao, et al.	2016	27698941	Dysregulation of microRNAs has been implicated in many cardiovascular diseases including fibrosis. Here we report that miR-433 was consistently elevated in three models of heart disease with prominent cardiac fibrosis, and was enriched in fibroblasts compared to cardiomyocytes. Forced expression of miR-433 in neonatal rat cardiac fibroblasts increased proliferation and their differentiation into myofibroblasts as determined by EdU incorporation, alpha-SMA staining, and expression levels of fibrosis-associated genes. Conversely, inhibition of miR-433 exhibited opposite results. AZIN1 and JNK1 were identified as two target genes of miR-433. Decreased level of AZIN1 activated TGF-beta1 while down-regulation of JNK1 resulted in activation of ERK and p38 kinase leading to Smad3 activation and ultimately cardiac fibrosis. Importantly, systemic neutralization of miR-433 or adeno-associated virus 9 (AAV9)-mediated cardiac transfer of a miR-433 sponge attenuated cardiac fibrosis and ventricular dysfunction following myocardial infarction. Thus, our work suggests that miR-433 is a potential target for amelioration of cardiac fibrosis.	Azin1;Jnk1.;cardiac fibrosis;miR-433
IGF-1 deficiency in a critical period early in life influences the vascular aging phenotype in mice by altering miRNA-mediated post-transcriptional gene regulation: implications for the developmental origins of health and disease hypothesis	S. Tarantini, et al.	2016	27566308	Epidemiological findings support the concept of Developmental Origins of Health and Disease, suggesting that early-life hormonal influences during a sensitive period of development have a fundamental impact on vascular health later in life. The endocrine changes that occur during development are highly conserved across mammalian species and include dramatic increases in circulating IGF-1 levels during adolescence. The present study was designed to characterize the effect of developmental IGF-1 deficiency on the vascular aging phenotype. To achieve that goal, early-onset endocrine IGF-1 deficiency was induced in mice by knockdown of IGF-1 in the liver using Cre-lox technology (Igf1 f/f mice crossed with mice expressing albumin-driven Cre recombinase). This model exhibits low-circulating IGF-1 levels during the peripubertal phase of development, which is critical for the biology of aging. Due to the emergence of miRNAs as important regulators of the vascular aging phenotype, the effect of early-life IGF-1 deficiency on miRNA expression profile in the aorta was examined in animals at 27 months of age. We found that developmental IGF-1 deficiency elicits persisting late-life changes in miRNA expression in the vasculature, which significantly differed from those in mice with adult-onset IGF-1 deficiency (TBG-Cre-AAV8-mediated knockdown of IGF-1 at 5 month of age in Igf1 f/f mice). Using a novel computational approach, we identified miRNA target genes that are co-expressed with IGF-1 and associate with aging and vascular pathophysiology. We found that among the predicted targets, the expression of multiple extracellular matrix-related genes, including collagen-encoding genes, were downregulated in mice with developmental IGF-1 deficiency. Collectively, IGF-1 deficiency during a critical period during early in life results in persistent changes in post-transcriptional miRNA-mediated control of genes critical targets for vascular health, which likely contribute to the deleterious late-life cardiovascular effects known to occur with developmental IGF-1 deficiency.	Epigenetics;Insulin-like growth factor 1;Post-transcriptional regulation;miRNA;microRNA;the guidelines of the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of OUHSC in;accordance with the ARRIVE guidelines. Conflict of interest The authors declare;that they have no conflict of interest.
Modulation of BK channel by MicroRNA-9 in neurons after exposure to HIV and methamphetamine	E. T. Tatro, et al.	2013	23508624	MicroRNAs (miR) regulate phenotype and function of neurons by binding to miR-response elements (MRE) in the 3' untranslated regions (3'UTR) of various messenger RNAs to inhibit translation. MiR expression can be induced or inhibited by environmental factors like drug exposure and viral infection, leading to changes in cellular physiology. We hypothesized that the effects of methamphetamine (MA) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infection in the brain will induce changes in miR expression, and have downstream regulatory consequences in neurons. We first used a PCR-based array to screen for differential expression of 380 miRs in frontal cortex autopsy tissues of HIV-positive MA abusers and matched controls. These results showed significantly increased expression of the neuron-specific miR-9. In vitro, we used SH-SY5Y cells, an experimental system for dopaminergic studies, to determine miR expression by quantitative PCR after exposure to MA in the presence or absence of conditioned media from HIV-infected macrophages. Again, we found that miR-9 was significantly increased compared to controls. We also examined the inwardly rectifying potassium channel, KCNMA1, which has alternative splice variants that contain an MRE to miR-9. We identified alternate 3'UTRs of KCNMA1 both in vitro and in the autopsy specimens and found differential splice variant expression of KCNMA1, operating via the increased miR-9. Our results suggest that HIV and MA -induced elevated miR-9, leading to suppression of MRE-containing splice variants of KCNMA1, which may affect neurotransmitter release in dopaminergic neurons.	AIDS Dementia Complex/genetics/ metabolism;Adult;Autopsy;Case-Control Studies;Cell Line;Central Nervous System Stimulants/ pharmacology;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects/genetics;Humans;In Situ Hybridization;Large-Conductance Calcium-Activated Potassium Channel alpha;Subunits/ biosynthesis/genetics;Male;Methamphetamine/ pharmacology;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Neurons/drug effects/metabolism/ virology;Protein Isoforms;Retrospective Studies;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Young Adult
Short-term recognition memory correlates with regional CNS expression of microRNA-138 in mice	E. T. Tatro, et al.	2013	23570889	OBJECTIVES: We hypothesized that microRNA (miR) expression may be involved in memory function because it controls local protein translation at synapses and dendritic spines. DESIGN: Case-control animal study. METHODS: We assessed the miR repertoire in the hippocampus of young, 6-month-old (N = 18) mice compared with aged, 26-month-old (N = 23) mice and compared miR quantity to memory scores as determined by the novel object recognition task. We performed a histological brain regional analysis of miR-138, acyl protein thioesterase 1 (APT1) mRNA, and APT1 protein. RESULTS: We found that higher miR-138 expression in the mouse hippocampus is correlated with better memory performance. We also found that APT1 (a depalmytoylation enzyme expressed at dendritic spines whose translation is controlled by miR-138) mRNA is increased in the mouse hippocampal CA1 and dentate gyrus in aged mice compared with young mice, but not in mice with memory impairment. We found APT1 protein distribution to be lower in cells with high miR-138 expression. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that increased miR-138 is associated with better memory and increased APT1 gene transcription occurs with aging. The role of miR-138 and APT1 protein function in memory and aging warrants further investigation.	Aging/genetics/psychology;Animals;Hippocampus/ metabolism;Male;Memory, Short-Term/ physiology;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Recognition (Psychology)/ physiology;Thiolester Hydrolases/genetics;Transcription, Genetic/genetics
Tumor-suppressive miR-34a induces senescence-like growth arrest through modulation of the E2F pathway in human colon cancer cells	H. Tazawa, et al.	2007	17875987	Accumulating evidence suggests a role for microRNAs in human carcinogenesis as novel types of tumor suppressors or oncogenes. However, their precise biological role remains largely elusive. In the present study, we aimed to identify microRNA species involved in the regulation of cell proliferation. Using quantitative RT-PCR analysis, we demonstrated that miR-34a was highly up-regulated in a human colon cancer cell line, HCT 116, treated with a DNA-damaging agent, adriamycin. Transient introduction of miR-34a into two human colon cancer cell lines, HCT 116 and RKO, caused complete suppression of cell proliferation and induced senescence-like phenotypes. Moreover, miR-34a also suppressed in vivo growth of HCT 116 and RKO cells in tumors in mice when complexed and administered with atelocollagen for drug delivery. Gene-expression microarray and immunoblot analyses revealed down-regulation of the E2F pathway by miR-34a introduction. Up-regulation of the p53 pathway was also observed. Furthermore, 9 of 25 human colon cancers (36%) showed decreased expression of miR-34a compared with counterpart normal tissues. Our results provide evidence that miR-34a functions as a potent suppressor of cell proliferation through modulation of the E2F signaling pathway. Abrogation of miR-34a function could contribute to aberrant cell proliferation, leading to colon cancer development.	Animals;Cell Aging;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Collagen/chemistry/metabolism;Doxorubicin/ pharmacology;E2F Transcription Factors/ chemistry/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/metabolism/ physiology;Neoplasm Transplantation;Phenotype;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/metabolism
EGFR signaling pathway and related-miRNAs in age-related diseases: the example of miR-221 and miR-222	A. L. Teixeira, et al.	2012	23233863	Presently, neurodegenerative diseases and cancer are the most clinically problematic age-related diseases worldwide. Although being distinct disorders, their developments share common cellular mechanisms. Oncogenesis and neurodegeneration arise from the deregulation of signaling pathways, as a consequence of the resulting imbalance in cellular homeostasis. The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) belongs to an important cellular signaling pathway, which regulates proliferation, differentiation, cell cycle and migration. As transcriptional targets of EGFR, the microRNAs-221/222 (miR-221/222) are important expression regulators. Dysfunctions in their networks are associated with cellular disruptions. The transcriptional activation of these microRNAs (miRNAs) seems to be involved in cell cycle, apoptosis, metastization, and in the acquisition of resistance to therapies. The up-regulation of miR-221/222 is associated with increased expression levels of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and repression of cell cycle inhibitors, which are key molecules in oncogenesis and neurodegeneration processes. The interaction loop between proliferative signaling pathways and miRNA expression could reveal new targets for controlling the molecular behavior of age-related diseases.	Egfr;age-related diseases;cancer;miR-221/222;miRNAs;neurodegenerative diseases
Induction of miR-21 by retinoic acid in estrogen receptor-positive breast carcinoma cells: biological correlates and molecular targets	M. Terao, et al.	2011	21131358	Retinoids are promising agents for the treatment/prevention of breast carcinoma. We examined the role of microRNAs in mediating the effects of all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), which suppresses the proliferation of estrogen receptor-positive (ERalpha(+)) breast carcinoma cells, such as MCF-7, but not estrogen receptor-negative cells, such as MDA-MB-231. We found that pro-oncogenic miR-21 is selectively induced by ATRA in ERalpha(+) cells. Induction of miR-21 counteracts the anti-proliferative action of ATRA but has the potentially beneficial effect of reducing cell motility. In ERalpha(+) cells, retinoid-dependent induction of miR-21 is due to increased transcription of the MIR21 gene via ligand-dependent activation of the nuclear retinoid receptor, RARalpha. RARalpha is part of the transcription complex present in the 5'-flanking region of the MIR21 gene. The receptor binds to two functional retinoic acid-responsive elements mapping upstream of the transcription initiation site. Silencing of miR-21 enhances ATRA-dependent growth inhibition and senescence while reverting suppression of cell motility afforded by the retinoid. Up-regulation of miR-21 results in retinoid-dependent inhibition of the established target, maspin. Knockdown and overexpression of maspin in MCF-7 cells indicates that the protein is involved in ATRA-induced growth inhibition and contributes to the ATRA-dependent anti-motility responses. Integration between whole genome analysis of genes differentially regulated by ATRA in MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 cells, prediction of miR-21 regulated genes, and functional studies led to the identification of three novel direct miR-21 targets: the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL1B, the adhesion molecule ICAM-1 and PLAT, the tissue-type plasminogen activator. Evidence for ICAM-1 involvement in retinoid-dependent inhibition of MCF-7 cell motility is provided.	Breast Neoplasms/ genetics/pathology;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Movement;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/ drug effects;Genome-Wide Association Study;Humans;Intercellular Adhesion Molecule-1/genetics;Interleukin-1/genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Receptors, Estrogen;Tissue Plasminogen Activator/genetics;Transcriptional Activation/drug effects;Tretinoin/ pharmacology
Induction of specific neuron types by overexpression of single transcription factors	Y. Teratani-Ota, et al.	2016	27251161	Specific neuronal types derived from embryonic stem cells (ESCs) can facilitate mechanistic studies and potentially aid in regenerative medicine. Existing induction methods, however, mostly rely on the effects of the combined action of multiple added growth factors, which generally tend to result in mixed populations of neurons. Here, we report that overexpression of specific transcription factors (TFs) in ESCs can rather guide the differentiation of ESCs towards specific neuron lineages. Analysis of data on gene expression changes 2 d after induction of each of 185 TFs implicated candidate TFs for further ESC differentiation studies. Induction of 23 TFs (out of 49 TFs tested) for 6 d facilitated neural differentiation of ESCs as inferred from increased proportion of cells with neural progenitor marker PSA-NCAM. We identified early activation of the Notch signaling pathway as a common feature of most potent inducers of neural differentiation. The majority of neuron-like cells generated by induction of Ascl1, Smad7, Nr2f1, Dlx2, Dlx4, Nr2f2, Barhl2, and Lhx1 were GABA-positive and expressed other markers of GABAergic neurons. In the same way, we identified Lmx1a and Nr4a2 as inducers for neurons bearing dopaminergic markers and Isl1, Fezf2, and St18 for cholinergic motor neurons. A time-course experiment with induction of Ascl1 showed early upregulation of most neural-specific messenger RNA (mRNA) and microRNAs (miRNAs). Sets of Ascl1-induced mRNAs and miRNAs were enriched in Ascl1 targets. In further studies, enrichment of cells obtained with the induction of Ascl1, Smad7, and Nr2f1 using microbeads resulted in essentially pure population of neuron-like cells with expression profiles similar to neural tissues and expressed markers of GABAergic neurons. In summary, this study indicates that induction of transcription factors is a promising approach to generate cultures that show the transcription profiles characteristic of specific neural cell types.	Animals;Basic Helix-Loop-Helix Transcription Factors/metabolism;COUP Transcription Factor I/metabolism;Cellular Reprogramming/genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Mice;Mouse Embryonic Stem Cells/cytology/metabolism;Neurogenesis;Neurons/ cytology/ metabolism;Smad7 Protein/metabolism;Transcription Factors/ metabolism;Transcriptome/genetics;Up-Regulation/genetics;Ascl1;Cholinergic neurons;Dopaminergic neurons;ESCs;GABAergic neurons;miRNA
Regulation of microRNA expression in the neuronal stem cell niches during aging of the short-lived annual fish Nothobranchius furzeri	E. Terzibasi Tozzini, et al.	2014	24600353	In the last decade, our group has intensively studied the annual fish Nothobranchius furzeri as a new experimental model in Biology specifically applied to aging research. We previously studied adult neuronal stem cells of N. furzeri in vivo and we demonstrated an age-dependent decay in adult neurogenesis. More recently we identified and quantified the expression of miRNAs in the brain of N. furzeri and we detected 165 conserved miRNAs and found that brain aging in this fish is associated with coherent up-regulation of well-known tumor suppressor miRNAs, as well as down-regulation of well-known onco miRNAs~- In the present work we characterized the expression of miR-15a, miR-20a, and microRNA cluster 17-92 in the principal neurogenic niches of the brain of young and old subjects of N. furzeri, by using in situ hybridization techniques, together with proliferating-cell nuclear antigen immuno-staining for a simultaneous visualization of the neuronal progenitors. We found that: (1) the expression of miR-15a is higher in the brain of old subjects and concentrates mainly in the principal neurogenic niches of telencephalon and optic tectum, (2) the expression of miR-20a is higher in the brain of young subjects, but more widespread to the areas surrounding the neurogenic niches, (3) finally, the expression of the microRNA cluster 17-92 is higher in the brain of young subjects, concentrated mainly in the principal neurogenic niches of telencephalon and cerebellum, and with reduced intensity in the optic tectum. Taken together, our data show that these microRNAs, originally identified in whole-brain analysis, are specifically regulated in the stem cell niche during aging.	Nothobranchius furzeri;adult neurogenesis;aging;in situ hybridization;maturation;microRNA regulation;neuronal stem cells
Age-Associated Differences in MiRNA Signatures Are Restricted to CD45RO Negative T Cells and Are Associated with Changes in the Cellular Composition, Activation and Cellular Ageing	N. Teteloshvili, et al.	2015	26360056	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as important players in the regulation of T-cell functionality. However, comprehensive insight into the extent of age-related miRNA changes in T cells is lacking. We established miRNA expression patterns of CD45RO- naive and CD45RO+ memory T-cell subsets isolated from peripheral blood cells from young and elderly individuals. Unsupervised clustering of the miRNA expression data revealed an age-related clustering in the CD45RO- T cells, while CD45RO+ T cells clustered based on expression of CD4 and CD8. Seventeen miRNAs showed an at least 2-fold up- or downregulation in CD45RO- T cells obtained from young as compared to old donors. Validation on the same and independent samples revealed a statistically significant age-related upregulation of miR-21, miR-223 and miR-15a. In a T-cell subset analysis focusing on known age-related phenotypic changes, we showed significantly higher miR-21 and miR-223 levels in CD8+CD45RO-CCR7- TEMRA compared to CD45RO-CCR7+ TNAIVE-cells. Moreover, miR-21 but not miR-223 levels were significantly increased in CD45RO-CD31- post-thymic TNAIVE cells as compared to thymic CD45RO-CD31+ TNAIVE cells. Upon activation of CD45RO- TNAIVE cells we observed a significant induction of miR-21 especially in CD4+ T cells, while miR-223 levels significantly decreased only in CD4+ T cells. Besides composition and activation-induced changes, we showed a borderline significant increase in miR-21 levels upon an increasing number of population doublings in CD4+ T-cell clones. Together, our results show that ageing related changes in miRNA expression are dominant in the CD45RO- T-cell compartment. The differential expression patterns can be explained by age related changes in T-cell composition, i.e. accumulation of CD8+ TEMRA and CD4+ post-thymic expanded CD31- T cells and by cellular ageing, as demonstrated in a longitudinal clonal culture model.	Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Antigens, CD45/genetics/ metabolism;CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes/immunology/metabolism;CD8-Positive T-Lymphocytes/immunology/ metabolism;Cell Aging;Cells, Cultured;Female;Humans;Lymphocyte Activation;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Transcriptome
Argonaute 2 immunoprecipitation revealed large tumor suppressor kinase 1 as a novel proapoptotic target of miR-21 in T cells	N. Teteloshvili, et al.	2017	28075055	MicroRNA (miR)-21 is an important suppressor of T-cell apoptosis that is also overexpressed in many types of cancers. The exact mechanisms underlying the antiapoptotic effects of miR-21 are not well understood. In this study, we used the Jurkat T-cell line as a model to identify apoptosis-associated miR-21 target genes. We showed that expression of miR-21 rapidly increases upon alphaCD3/alphaCD28 activation of Jurkat cells. Inhibition of miR-21 reduced cell growth which could be explained by an increase in apoptosis. MicroRNA target gene identification by AGO2 RNA-immunoprecipitation followed by gene expression microarray (RIP-Chip) resulted in the identification of 72 predicted miR-21 target genes that were at least twofold enriched in the AGO2-IP fraction of miR-21 overexpressing cells. Of these, 71 were at least twofold more enriched in the AGO2-IP fraction of miR-21 overexpressing cells as compared to AGO2-IP fraction of control cells. The target gene for which the AGO2-IP enrichment was most prominently increased upon miR-21 overexpression was the proapoptotic protein LATS1. Luciferase reporter assays and western blot analysis confirmed targeting of LATS1 by miR-21. qRT-PCR analysis in primary T cells showed an inverse expression pattern between LATS1 transcript levels and miR-21 upon T-cell stimulation. Finally, LATS1 knockdown partially rescued the miR-21 inhibition-induced impaired cell growth. Collectively, these data identify LATS1 as a miR-21 target important for the antiapoptotic function of miR-21 in T cells and likely also in many types of cancer.	Animals;Antibodies, Monoclonal/pharmacology;Antigens, CD28/agonists/genetics/immunology;Antigens, CD3/genetics/immunology;Apoptosis/ genetics/immunology;Argonaute Proteins/ genetics/immunology;Base Sequence;COS Cells;Cell Line, Transformed;Cercopithecus aethiops;Gene Expression Regulation;Genes, Reporter;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Immunoprecipitation;Jurkat Cells;Luciferases/genetics/metabolism;Lymphocyte Activation/drug effects;MicroRNAs/ genetics/immunology;Protein Binding;Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases/ genetics/immunology;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Ago2-rip;Lats1;T cells;apoptosis;miR-21
Apolipoprotein E isotype-dependent modulation of microRNA-146a in plasma and brain	B. Teter, et al.	2016	27281274	The Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) isotype ApoE4 is a prevalent genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD) that can modulate systemic and central inflammation, independent of amyloid accumulation. Although disruption of innate immune toll receptor signaling is modulated by ApoE and observed in AD, ApoE isotype-specific effects remain poorly understood. Therefore, we examined the effect of the ApoE isotype on the brain levels of major regulators of TLR signaling including miR146a, a microRNA enriched in the brain. We used 6-month-old ApoE3 or ApoE4 targeted replacement mice with and without mutant familial AD transgenes. ApoE4 reduced the levels of miR146a compared with ApoE3, both in the brain (29%; P<0.0001) and in plasma (47%; P<0.05), which correlated with each other (r=0.74; P<0.05). The presence of 5xFAD transgenes increased brain miR146a in both ApoE3 (E3FAD) and ApoE4 (E4FAD) mice; however, miR146a levels in E4FAD mice remained lower than those in E3FAD mice (62%; P<0.05), despite increased amyloid and inflammation. Supporting these observations, ApoE4 brains showed increased expression of interleukin receptor-associated kinase-1 (160%; P<0.05) (normally downregulated by miR146) that correlated inversely with miR146a levels (r=0.637; P<0.0001). Reduced negative feedback of toll-like receptor signaling (by miRNA146a) can explain early-life hypersensitivity to innate immune stimuli (including Abeta) in ApoE4 carriers. Thus, ApoE4 causes early dysregulation of a central controller of the innate immune system both centrally and systemically. This defect persists with familial AD pathology and may be relevant to ApoE4 AD risk.	
Transcriptome-wide analysis of messenger RNA decay in normal and osteoarthritic human articular chondrocytes	S. R. Tew, et al.	2014	25155964	OBJECTIVE: Messenger RNA (mRNA) decay rates control not only gene expression levels, but also responsiveness to altered transcriptional input. We undertook this study to examine transcriptome-wide posttranscriptional regulation in both normal and osteoarthritic (OA) human articular chondrocytes. METHODS: Human articular chondrocytes were isolated from normal or OA tissue. Equine articular chondrocytes were isolated from young or old horses at a commercial abattoir. RNA decay was measured across the transcriptome in human cells by microarray analysis following an actinomycin D chase. Messenger RNA levels in samples were confirmed using quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. RESULTS: Examination of total mRNA expression levels demonstrated significant differences in the expression of transcripts between normal and OA chondrocytes. Interestingly, almost no difference was observed in total mRNA expression between chondrocytes from intact OA cartilage and those from fibrillated OA cartilage. Decay analysis revealed a set of rapidly turned over transcripts associated with transcriptional control and programmed cell death that were common to all chondrocytes and contained binding sites for abundant cartilage microRNAs. Many transcripts exhibited altered mRNA half-lives in human OA chondrocytes compared to normal cells. Specific transcripts whose decay rates were altered were generally less stable in these pathologic cells. Examination of selected genes in chondrocytes from young and old healthy horses did not identify any change in mRNA turnover. CONCLUSION: This is the first investigation into the "posttranscriptome" of the chondrocyte. It identifies a set of short-lived chondrocyte mRNAs likely to be highly responsive to altered transcriptional input as well as mRNAs whose decay rates are affected in OA chondrocytes.	Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/metabolism;Animals;Cartilage, Articular/ metabolism/pathology;Cells, Cultured;Chondrocytes/ metabolism/pathology;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Horses;Humans;In Vitro Techniques;Male;Middle Aged;Models, Animal;Osteoarthritis, Knee/ metabolism/pathology/ physiopathology;RNA Stability/ physiology;RNA, Messenger/ metabolism;Young Adult
Post-transcriptional gene regulation following exposure of osteoarthritic human articular chondrocytes to hyperosmotic conditions	S. R. Tew, et al.	2011	21640843	OBJECTIVE: Osmolarity is a major biophysical regulator of chondrocyte function. Modulation of chondrocytic marker gene expression occurs at the post-transcriptional level following exposure of human articular chondrocytes (HAC) to hyperosmotic conditions. This study aims to further characterise the post-transcriptional response of HAC to hyperosmolarity. METHODS: Gene expression and microRNA (miRNA) levels in freshly isolated HAC after 5h under control or hyperosmotic conditions were measured using microarrays. Regulated genes were checked for the presence of AU rich elements (AREs) in their 3' untranslated regions (3'UTR), whilst gene ontology was examined using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA). RNA decay rates of candidate ARE-containing genes were determined in HAC using actinomycin D chase experiments and the involvement of the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) pathways were investigated using pharmacological inhibitors. RESULTS: Hyperosmolarity led to the regulation of a wide variety of genes. IPA identified enrichment of genes involved with cell stress responses, cell signalling and transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) signalling. Importantly, upregulated genes were over-represented with those containing AREs, and RNA decay analysis demonstrated that many of these were regulated post-transcriptionally by hyperosmolarity in HAC. Analysis of miRNA levels in HAC indicated that they are only modestly regulated by hyperosmotic conditions, whilst inhibitor studies showed that p38 MAPK and ERK1/2 were able to block hyperosmotic induction of many of these genes. CONCLUSION: Through microarray and bioinformatics analysis we have identified genes which are post-transcriptionally regulated in HAC following exposure to hyperosmotic conditions. These genes have a range of functions, and their regulation involves transduction through the p38 MAPK and ERK1/2 pathways. Interestingly, our results suggest that miRNA regulation is not key to the process. Overall, this work illustrates the range of processes regulated in chondrocytes by changes in their osmotic environment, and underlines the importance of post-transcriptional mRNA regulation to chondrocyte function.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Cartilage, Articular/ metabolism;Chondrocytes/chemistry/ metabolism;Collagen Type II/metabolism;Dactinomycin/pharmacology;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase 1/antagonists & inhibitors/ metabolism;Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase 3/antagonists & inhibitors/ metabolism;Osmolar Concentration;Osteoarthritis, Knee/ metabolism;Protein Synthesis Inhibitors/pharmacology;SOX9 Transcription Factor/metabolism;Transforming Growth Factor beta/metabolism;p38 Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases/antagonists & inhibitors/ metabolism
Differential expression of miRNAs and their target genes in senescing leaves and siliques: insights from deep sequencing of small RNAs and cleaved target RNAs	S. R. Thatcher, et al.	2015	24965556	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of small RNAs, which typically function by guiding cleavage of target mRNAs. They are known to play roles in a variety of plant processes including development, responses to environmental stresses and senescence. To identify senescence regulation of miRNAs in Arabidopsis thaliana, eight small RNA libraries were constructed and sequenced at four different stages of development and senescence from both leaves and siliques, resulting in more than 200 million genome-matched sequences. Parallel analysis of RNA ends libraries, which enable the large-scale examination of miRNA-guided cleavage products, were constructed and sequenced, resulting in over 750 million genome-matched sequences. These large datasets led to the identification a new senescence-inducible small RNA locus, as well as new regulation of known miRNAs and their target genes during senescence, many of which have established roles in nutrient responsiveness and cell structural integrity. In keeping with remobilization of nutrients thought to occur during senescence, many miRNAs and targets had opposite expression pattern changes between leaf and silique tissues during the progression of senescence. Taken together, these findings highlight the integral role that miRNAs may play in the remobilization of resources and alteration of cellular structure that is known to occur in senescence.	Arabidopsis/ genetics;Cell Aging;Gene Expression Regulation, Plant;Gene Library;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Plant Leaves/genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics;RNA, Plant/genetics;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Time Factors;Arabidopsis thaliana;Pare;microRNA;nutrient remobilization;senescence;silique
microRNA-155 Regulates Alpha-Synuclein-Induced Inflammatory Responses in Models of Parkinson Disease	A. D. Thome, et al.	2016	26911687	Increasing evidence points to inflammation as a chief mediator of Parkinson's disease (PD), a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by loss of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and widespread aggregates of the protein alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn). Recently, microRNAs, small, noncoding RNAs involved in regulating gene expression at the posttranscriptional level, have been recognized as important regulators of the inflammatory environment. Using an array approach, we found significant upregulation of microRNA-155 (miR-155) in an in vivo model of PD produced by adeno-associated-virus-mediated expression of alpha-syn. Using a mouse with a complete deletion of miR-155, we found that loss of miR-155 reduced proinflammatory responses to alpha-syn and blocked alpha-syn-induced neurodegeneration. In primary microglia from miR-155(-/-) mice, we observed a markedly reduced inflammatory response to alpha-syn fibrils, with attenuation of major histocompatibility complex class II (MHCII) and proinflammatory inducible nitric oxide synthase expression. Treatment of these microglia with a synthetic mimic of miR-155 restored the inflammatory response to alpha-syn fibrils. Our results suggest that miR-155 has a central role in the inflammatory response to alpha-syn in the brain and in alpha-syn-related neurodegeneration. These effects are at least in part due to a direct role of miR-155 on the microglial response to alpha-syn. These data implicate miR-155 as a potential therapeutic target for regulating the inflammatory response in PD.	Animals;Animals, Newborn;Cells, Cultured;Disease Models, Animal;Inflammation Mediators/ metabolism;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Microglia/metabolism/pathology;Parkinson Disease/ metabolism/pathology;alpha-Synuclein/ biosynthesis;Parkinson disease;microRNA-155;microglia;neurodegeneration;neuroinflammation;alpha-synuclein
Non-coding RNAs in ageing	T. Thum	2014	25152449		Aging/ metabolism;Animals;Humans;RNA, Untranslated/ metabolism;Ageing;Cancer;Cardiovascular disease;Long noncoding RNA (lncRNA);MicroRNAs;Non-coding RNAs
SVCT2, a potential therapeutic target, protects against oxidative stress during ethanol-induced neurotoxicity via JNK/p38 MAPKs, NF-kappaB and miRNA125a-5p	H. Tian, et al.	2016	27085842	Sodium vitamin C transporter 2 (SVCT2) plays a key role in transporting ascorbic acid (AA), an important intracellular antioxidant, into neurons. It is well known that ethanol (EtOH) abuse causes significant neurodegeneration, as well as endogenous AA release in certain encephalic regions. Here, we identified that SVCT2 forms part of a self-defense mechanism that protects against oxidative stress in binge drinking rats, and SVCT2 levels are correlated with antioxidants and neuronal injury. Four days of binge drinking led to massive neuron degeneration in prefrontal cortex (PFC), accompanied by increased levels of 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE)-adducted proteins and SVCT2 expression, as well as dramatic changes in AA levels in rat brain. AA levels were decreased in PFC and increased in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) after binge drinking, but returned to normal on the 7th day following EtOH withdrawal. These processes were further evaluated in primary cortical neurons exposed to 100mM EtOH in vitro. Neurons transfected with SVCT2 siRNA were more susceptible than controls to certain aspects of EtOH-induced injury, including cell death, dendrite damage and increased oxidative stress. EtOH-induced up-regulation of SVCT2 was associated with activation of JNK and p38 MAPKs and the NF-kappaB pathway. More importantly, miRNA-125a-5p was down-regulated in PFC of 4-day binge drinking rats and negatively regulated protein expression during EtOH-induced neuronal injury. MiR-125a-5p over-expression attenuated intracellular AA levels, promoted cell death and suppressed the EtOH-induced up-regulation of p38 MAPK and SVCT2, which suggested that miR-125a-5p plays an important role in SVCT2 function in EtOH-induced neuronal injury. We speculate that SVCT2, possibly regulated by JNK/p38 MAPKs, NF-kappaB signaling and miR-125a-5p, has a neuroprotective effect against EtOH-induced oxidative stress. Promotion of SVCT2 expression or stimulation of SVCT2 activity may be a promising therapeutic strategy for the prevention of EtOH-associated neurodegeneration.	Ascorbic acid;Ethanol;MiR-125a-5p;Neurodegeneration;Oxidative stress;Svct2
[Real-time PCR for detecting differential expressions of microRNAs in the brain of a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease]	M. Tian, et al.	2013	23443785	OBJECTIVE: To detect the expression of miRNA-135a-5p, miRNA-135a-2-3p, miRNA-298-5p, miRNA-466b-3p and miR-669f-3p in the brain tissue of the APPswe/PS deltaE9 double transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease using real-time PCR. METHODS: Six-month-old APPswe/PS deltaE9 double transgenic mice and wild-type C57 mice of the same species were examined for the expressions of miRNA-135a-5p, miRNA-135a-2-3p, miRNA-298-5p, miRNA-466b-3p and miR-669f-3p in the brain tissue using real-time PCR. RESULTS: The relative expression levels of the 5 miRNAs in the transgenic versus the wild-type mice were 0.73-/+0.27 vs 1.08-/+0.58, 2.47-/+6.15 vs 1.65-/+0.67, 0.72-/+0.14 vs 1.31-/+0.73, 0.57-/+0.34 vs 1.06-/+0.35, and 0.63-/+0.26 vs 1.02-/+0.18, respectively, showing significance differences in the expressions of miRNA-135a-5p, miRNA-298-5p, miRNA-466b-3p, and miR-669f-3p between the two groups (P<0.05). CONCLUSIONS: miRNA-135a-5p, miRNA-298-5p, miRNA-466b-3p and miR-669f-3p are expressed differentially in APPswe/PS deltaE9 double transgenic mice, suggesting their important roles in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease.	Alzheimer Disease/genetics/ metabolism;Animals;Brain/ metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction/ methods
MiR-206 decreases brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease	N. Tian, et al.	2014	24604632	MicroRNA alterations have been reported in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and AD mouse models. We now report that miR-206 is upregulated in the hippocampal tissue, cerebrospinal fluid, and plasma of embryonic APP/PS1 transgenic mice. The increased miR-206 downregulates the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). BDNF is neuroprotective against cell death after various insults, but in embryonic and newborn APP/PS1 mice it is decreased. Thus, a specific microRNA alteration may contribute to AD pathology by downregulating BDNF.	Alzheimer Disease/ metabolism;Animals;Blotting, Western;Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor/ metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay;Gene Expression Regulation/ physiology;Hippocampus/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction
Effects of Folic Acid on Secretases Involved in Abeta Deposition in APP/PS1 Mice	T. Tian, et al.	2016	27618097	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common type of dementia. Amyloid-beta protein (Abeta) is identified as the core protein of neuritic plaques. Abeta is generated by the sequential cleavage of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) via the APP cleaving enzyme (alpha-secretase, or beta-secretase) and gamma-secretase. Previous studies indicated that folate deficiency elevated Abeta deposition in APP/PS1 mice, and this rise was prevented by folic acid. In the present study, we aimed to investigate whether folic acid could influence the generation of Abeta by regulating alpha-, beta-, and gamma-secretase. Herein, we demonstrated that folic acid reduced the deposition of Abeta42 in APP/PS1 mice brain by decreasing the mRNA and protein expressions of beta-secretase [beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1)] and gamma-secretase complex catalytic component-presenilin 1 (PS1)-in APP/PS1 mice brain. Meanwhile, folic acid increased the levels of ADAM9 and ADAM10, which are important alpha-secretases in ADAM (a disintegrin and metalloprotease) family. However, folic acid has no impact on the protein expression of nicastrin (Nct), another component of gamma-secretase complex. Moreover, folic acid regulated the expression of miR-126-3p and miR-339-5p, which target ADAM9 and BACE1, respectively. Taken together, the effect of folic acid on Abeta deposition may relate to making APP metabolism through non-amyloidogenic pathway by decreasing beta-secretase and increasing alpha-secretase. MicroRNA (miRNA) may involve in the regulation mechanism of folic acid on secretase expression.	ADAM Proteins/genetics/metabolism;ADAM10 Protein/genetics/metabolism;Alzheimer Disease/drug therapy/genetics;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/genetics/ metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/genetics/ metabolism;Animals;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/genetics/ metabolism;Brain/ drug effects/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Folic Acid/blood/ pharmacology;Folic Acid Deficiency/drug therapy;Gene Expression Regulation;Male;Membrane Glycoproteins/genetics/metabolism;Membrane Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Presenilin-1/genetics/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Alzheimer's disease;Abeta generation;folic acid;microRNAs;secretase
MiR-146a and miR-196a-2 polymorphisms are associated with hepatitis virus-related hepatocellular cancer risk: a meta-analysis	T. Tian, et al.	2017	28148887	Previous studies have investigated the role of miR-146a rs2910164 and miR-196a-2 rs11614913 polymorphisms in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) susceptibility, but the results are contradictory and few specifically studied hepatitis virus-related HCC. Therefore, we conducted a meta-analysis to evaluate the association between these two polymorphisms and hepatitis virus-related HCC risk. We performed a systematical search in EMBASE, PubMed, Web of Science, CNKI and Wanfang databases as of 25th November, 2016. Finally, we assessed 14 studies involving 3852 cases and 5275 controls. Our results suggest that rs2910164 has a significant association with increased hepatitis virus-related HCC risk in allelic, homozygous, heterozygous, and dominant models (CG+GG vs. CC: OR=1.22, 95% CI=1.06-1.39, P=0.004), particularly in Chinese and HBV-related HCC subgroups. Conversely, rs11614913 was associated with lower hepatitis virus-related HCC risk in the overall analysis under allelic (T vs. C: OR=0.85, 95% CI=0.74-0.98, P=0.02), homozygous, dominant and recessive models. Subgroup analyses showed decreased risk in Chinese, HBV- and HCV-related HCC. In conclusion, miR-146a C>G (rs2910164) can increase HBV-related HCC risk while miR-196a-2 C>T (rs11614913) may decrease the risk of HBV- and HCV-related HCC, especially in the Chinese population. Further, large-scale studies including other races are required to confirm these findings.	hepatitis virus-related hepatocellular carcinoma;meta-analysis;microRNA;single nucleotide polymorphism
Mutational analysis of VCP gene in familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis	C. Tiloca, et al.	2012	22137929	Mutations in valosin-containing protein (VCP) gene, already known to be associated with the multisystemic disorder, inclusion body myopathy with Paget's disease and frontotemporal dementia (IBMPFD), have been recently found also in familial cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). To further define the frequency of VCP mutations in ALS Italian population, we screened a cohort of 166 familial ALS and 14 ALS-frontotemporal dementia (FTD) individuals. We identified a previously reported synonymous mutation (c.2093A>C; p.Q568Q), 2 intronic variants (c.1749-14C>T; c.2085-3C>T), and 1 nucleotide change (c.2814G>T) in the 3' untranslated region (UTR). Bioinformatical analyses predicted no changes in splicing process or microRNA binding sites. Our results do not confirm a main contribution of VCP gene to familial ALS in the Italian population.	Adenosine Triphosphatases/ genetics/metabolism;Alternative Splicing/genetics;Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/ genetics;Cell Cycle Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Cohort Studies;Computational Biology/methods;DNA Mutational Analysis/methods;Genotype;Humans;Italy/epidemiology;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Point Mutation/ genetics;Predictive Value of Tests;Protein Binding/genetics
Unacylated ghrelin induces oxidative stress resistance in a glucose intolerance and peripheral artery disease mouse model by restoring endothelial cell miR-126 expression	G. Togliatto, et al.	2015	25368096	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are crucial in long-term diabetes complications, including peripheral artery disease (PAD). In this study, we have investigated the potential clinical impact of unacylated ghrelin (UnAG) in a glucose intolerance and PAD mouse model. We demonstrate that UnAG is able to protect skeletal muscle and endothelial cells (ECs) from ROS imbalance in hind limb ischemia-subjected ob/ob mice. This effect translates into reductions in hind limb functional impairment. We show that UnAG rescues sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) activity and superoxide dismutase-2 (SOD-2) expression in ECs. This leads to SIRT1-mediated p53 and histone 3 lysate 56 deacetylation and results in reduced EC senescence in vivo. We demonstrate, using small interfering RNA technology, that SIRT1 is also crucial for SOD-2 expression. UnAG also renews micro-RNA (miR)-126 expression, resulting in the posttranscriptional regulation of vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 expression and a reduced number of infiltrating inflammatory cells in vivo. Loss-of-function experiments that target miR-126 demonstrate that miR-126 also controls SIRT1 and SOD-2 expression, thus confirming its role in driving UnAG-mediated EC protection against ROS imbalance. These results indicate that UnAG protects vessels from ROS imbalance in ob/ob mice by rescuing miR-126 expression, thus emphasizing its potential clinical impact in avoiding limb loss in PAD.	Animals;Disease Models, Animal;Endothelial Cells/ drug effects/metabolism;Ghrelin/ pharmacology;Glucose Intolerance/ metabolism;Hindlimb/blood supply;Ischemia/metabolism;Male;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Oxidative Stress/ drug effects;Peripheral Arterial Disease/ metabolism;Sirtuin 1/metabolism;Superoxide Dismutase/metabolism
The let-7-Imp axis regulates ageing of the Drosophila testis stem-cell niche	H. Toledano, et al.	2012	22660319	Adult stem cells support tissue homeostasis and repair throughout the life of an individual. During ageing, numerous intrinsic and extrinsic changes occur that result in altered stem-cell behaviour and reduced tissue maintenance and regeneration. In the Drosophila testis, ageing results in a marked decrease in the self-renewal factor Unpaired (Upd), leading to a concomitant loss of germline stem cells. Here we demonstrate that IGF-II messenger RNA binding protein (Imp) counteracts endogenous small interfering RNAs to stabilize upd (also known as os) RNA. However, similar to upd, Imp expression decreases in the hub cells of older males, which is due to the targeting of Imp by the heterochronic microRNA let-7. In the absence of Imp, upd mRNA therefore becomes unprotected and susceptible to degradation. Understanding the mechanistic basis for ageing-related changes in stem-cell behaviour will lead to the development of strategies to treat age-onset diseases and facilitate stem-cell-based therapies in older individuals.	Animals;Argonaute Proteins/metabolism;Base Sequence;Cell Aging/ physiology;Drosophila Proteins/biosynthesis/genetics/ metabolism;Drosophila melanogaster/ cytology/genetics/ metabolism;Female;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Organ Specificity;RNA Helicases/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/metabolism;RNA-Binding Proteins/biosynthesis/genetics/ metabolism;Ribonuclease III/metabolism;Stem Cell Niche/genetics/ physiology;Testis/ cytology;Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism
miR-335 correlates with senescence/aging in human mesenchymal stem cells and inhibits their therapeutic actions through inhibition of AP-1 activity	M. Tome, et al.	2014	24648336	MicroRNAs, small noncoding RNAs, regulate gene expression primarily at the posttranscriptional level. We previously found that miR-335 is critically involved in the regulation and differentiation capacity of human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) in vitro. In this study, we investigated the significance of miR-335 for the therapeutic potential of hMSCs. Analysis of hMSCs in ex vivo culture demonstrated a significant and progressive increase in miR-335 that is prevented by telomerase. Expression levels of miR-335 were also positively correlated with donor age of hMSCs, and were increased by stimuli that induce cell senescence, such as gamma-irradiation and standard O2 concentration. Forced expression of miR-335 resulted in early senescence-like alterations in hMSCs, including: increased SA-beta-gal activity and cell size, reduced cell proliferation capacity, augmented levels of p16 protein, and the development of a senescence-associated secretory phenotype. Furthermore, overexpression of miR-335 abolished the in vivo chondro-osseous potential of hMSCs, and disabled their immunomodulatory capacity in a murine experimental model of lethal endotoxemia. These effects were accompanied by a severely reduced capacity for cell migration in response to proinflammatory signals and a marked reduction in Protein Kinase D1 phosphorylation, resulting in a pronounced decrease of AP-1 activity. Our results demonstrate that miR-335 plays a key role in the regulation of reparative activities of hMSCs and suggests that it might be considered a marker for the therapeutic potency of these cells in clinical applications.	Blotting, Western;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Differentiation/ genetics;Cell Movement/genetics;Flow Cytometry;Fluorescent Antibody Technique;Humans;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ physiology;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Transcription Factor AP-1/ metabolism;Transduction, Genetic;Aging;Immunotherapy;Mesenchymal stem cells;MicroRNA
Bone loss in adult offspring induced by low-dose exposure to teratogens	A. Torchinsky, et al.	2012	21960178	Maternal malnutrition during pregnancy was shown by numerous studies to result in the birth of offspring exhibiting altered bone characteristics, which are indicative of bone loss. We hypothesized that not only maternal malnutrition but also some developmental toxicants (teratogens) given at a dose inducing neither structural anomalies nor growth retardation can detrimentally affect skeletal health in adult offspring. To check this hypothesis, pregnant mice were exposed to a single injection of 5-aza-2-deoxycytidine (5-AZA) (a teratogen capable of inducing phocomelia of the hind limbs) at a sub-threshold teratogenic dose. Micro-computed tomography scanning revealed that femora of 5-month-old male offspring exposed in uterus to 5-AZA had trabecular microarchitecture indicative of bone loss. Furthermore, exposure to 5-AZA increased the susceptibility of offspring to postnatal chronic mild stress, which has been shown to induce bone loss in mice. While exploring possible mechanisms underlying this phenomenon, we observed that the expression of some microRNAs, which have been demonstrated as regulators of key osteoblastogenic genes, was altered in hind limb buds of embryos exposed to 5-AZA. Furthermore, the expression of receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa B ligand (RANKL) in femoral stromal/osteoblastic cells of 5-month-old offspring of 5-AZA-treated females was found to be increased. Collectively, this study implies for the first time that single low-dose exposure to a teratogen can induce bone loss in adult offspring, possibly via alteration of embryonic microRNAs and RANKL expression.	Acid Phosphatase/metabolism;Aging/ drug effects/ pathology;Animals;Apoptosis/drug effects;Azacitidine/ toxicity;Bone Resorption/ chemically induced/diagnostic imaging/genetics/pathology;Embryo, Mammalian/drug effects/pathology;Female;Femur/diagnostic imaging/drug effects/pathology;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/drug effects;Hindlimb/drug effects/embryology/metabolism/pathology;Isoenzymes/metabolism;Limb Buds/drug effects/metabolism/pathology;Mice;Mice, Inbred ICR;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Osteoblasts/drug effects/metabolism;Osteogenesis/drug effects/genetics;Osteoprotegerin/metabolism;Pregnancy;Prenatal Exposure Delayed Effects/genetics/ pathology;RANK Ligand/metabolism;Reproduction/drug effects;Tartrate-Resistant Acid Phosphatase;Teratogens/ toxicity;X-Ray Microtomography
Design of shRNA and miRNA for Delivery to the CNS	G. Toro Cabrera and C. Mueller	2016	26611579	Neurologic diseases tend to target various areas of the central nervous system (CNS) and can therefore result in paralysis, dementia, and death. Neurodegenerative diseases distinguish themselves from other diseases by affecting nerve cells, which unlike many other cells in our body cannot regenerate when severely injured. The discovery of RNA interference (RNAi) has enabled scientist to design new therapeutic approaches based on specific gene silencing rather than the canonical gene therapy through gene augmentation. Two types of molecules can be used for viral vector-mediated gene silencing: short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) and artificial microRNAs (miRNAs) that have the ability to enter the RNAi pathway. Although both shRNAs and miRNAs can be used to silence genes, they enter the RNAi pathway at different points. Unlike shRNAs, miRNAs require an additional cleavage step inside the nucleus before being exported to the cytoplasm. These molecules can then be incorporated into the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC) which utilizes sequence complementarity to recognize target mRNAs and activate either translational repression, in the case of partial complementarity, or induce mRNA cleavage in the case of complete complementarity. Elevated amounts of shRNAs, which are commonly driven by strong polymerase III promoters, can cause saturation of the endogenous RNAi machinery due to competition between endogenous and artificial molecules. Switching to a DNA polymerase II promoter is an alternative to reduce shRNA production, thereby reducing toxicity. Even though the molecules are designed to target specific mRNAs there may be off-target effects due to nonspecific binding that must be accounted for during the design process. In this chapter we discuss the design and in vitro screening of shRNAs and artificial miRNAs.	Central Nervous System/ metabolism;DNA Polymerase II/genetics;Dependovirus/genetics;Gene Silencing;Genetic Engineering/methods;Genetic Therapy;Genetic Vectors/administration & dosage/adverse effects;HEK293 Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/administration & dosage/ genetics;Promoter Regions, Genetic;RNA, Small Interfering/administration & dosage/ genetics;Aav;Knockdown;RNAi;miRNA;shRNA
Role of microRNAs on Blood Brain Barrier Dysfunction in Vascular Cognitive Impairment	K. Toyama, et al.	2016	27572324	BACKGROUND: Dementia cases are increasing as the population ages, leading to increased financial costs. Several neuronal diseases including ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke involve cerebrovascular injury or pathophysiology. Cerebrovascular injury is closely tied to blood brain barrier (BBB) disruption. Many studies have shown a significant association between BBB dysfunction and neurological diseases. Therefore, an understanding of the molecular mechanisms which regulate BBB permeability and disruption is essential for establishing future therapeutic strategies to alter dementia disease progression related to cerebrovascular injury,so-called vascular cognitive impairment (VCI). microRNAs (miRs) are small noncodingRNAs that regulate gene expression through targeting of mRNA transcripts.miRs have been implicated in the development and progression of various illnesses, including vascular disease. However, the role of miRs in BBB breakdown or permeability and VCI development has not yet been well clarified. METHODS: Research content related to the origins of VCI and the role of the BBB in pathologic development and therapeutic targeting are reviewed, including current relevant animal models. We draw from the published literature regarding microRNA candidates that are associated with modulation of BBB structure and function. RESULTS: In this review, we summarize the current knowledge about VCI, explore the potential role of miRs in BBB breakdown and VCI progression, and identify potential candidate miRs for development of new treatment strategies. CONCLUSION: miRs constitute a promising novel avenue as future therapeutic options for alteration of both BBB permeability and development of VCI.	
Aging rather than sun exposure is a major determining factor for the density of miR-125b-positive epidermal stem cells in human skin	S. Toyokuni, et al.	2015	26081223	Sunlight exposure and aging are two major factors in the deterioration of skin function. In the present study, we used eighty formalin-fixed human skin samples from sun-exposed and unexposed areas from old and young individuals to evaluate the presence of miR-125b-positive epidermal stem cells (ESCs) by in situ hybridization. miR-125b-positive ESCs were detected in the basal layer of the epidermis. The density of miR-125b-positive ESCs was significantly associated with age rather than sun exposure, whereas the density of miR-125b-positive ESCs tended to decrease in the sun-exposed area. These data suggest the potential use of miR-125b as a surrogate marker for the quality of epidermal cells.	Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ metabolism;Child;Child, Preschool;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Skin/ metabolism;Stem Cells/ metabolism;Sunlight;Young Adult;Uv;biomarker;epidermal stem cell;miRNA;skin aging
Adult neurogenesis in the short-lived teleost Nothobranchius furzeri: localization of neurogenic niches, molecular characterization and effects of aging	E. T. Tozzini, et al.	2012	22171971	We studied adult neurogenesis in the short-lived annual fish Nothobranchius furzeri and quantified the effects of aging on the mitotic activity of the neuronal progenitors and the expression of glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) in the radial glia. The distribution of neurogenic niches is substantially similar to that of zebrafish and adult stem cells generate neurons, which persist in the adult brain. As opposed to zebrafish, however, the N. furzeri genome contains a doublecortin (DCX) gene. Doublecortin is transiently expressed by newly generated neurons in the telencephalon and optic tectum (OT). We also analyzed the expression of the microRNA miR-9 and miR-124 and found that they have complementary expression domains: miR-9 is expressed in the neurogenic niches of the telencephalon and the radial glia of the OT, while miR-124 is expressed in differentiated neurons. The main finding of this paper is the demonstration of an age-dependent decay in adult neurogenesis. Using unbiased stereological estimates of cell numbers, we detected an almost fivefold decrease in the number of mitotically active cells in the OT between young and old age. This reduced mitotic activity is paralleled by a reduction in DCX labeling. Finally, we detected a dramatic up-regulation of GFAP in the radial glia of the aged brain. This up-regulation is not paralleled by a similar up-regulation of S100B and Musashi-1, two other markers of the radial glia. In summary, the brain of N. furzeri replicates two typical hallmarks of mammalian aging: gliosis and reduced adult neurogenesis.	Aging;Animals;Cell Survival;Fishes/ metabolism;Neurogenesis;Neurons/ cytology/metabolism
Age-associated remodeling of the intestinal epithelial barrier	L. Tran and B. Greenwood-Van Meerveld	2013	23873964	Disorders of the gastrointestinal tract are common in the elderly people; however, the precise trait(s) of aging that contribute to the vulnerability of the gastrointestinal tract are poorly understood. Recent evidence suggests that patients with gastrointestinal disorders have increased intestinal permeability. Here, we address the hypothesis that disruption of the intestinal barrier is associated with aging. Our results demonstrated that permeability was significantly higher in colonic biopsies collected from old baboons compared with young baboons. Additionally, colonic tissue from the older animals had decreased zonula occluden-1, occludin, and junctional adhesion molecule-A tight junction protein expression and increased claudin-2 expression. Upregulation of miR-29a and inflammatory cytokines IFN-gamma, IL-6, and IL-1beta was also found in colonic biopsies from old baboons relative to young baboons. These results show for the first time that a pivotal contributing factor to geriatric vulnerability to gastrointestinal dysfunction may be increased colonic permeability via age-associated remodeling of intestinal epithelial tight junction proteins.	Aging/genetics/pathology/ physiology;Animals;Colon/pathology/physiology;Cytokines/biosynthesis;Gastrointestinal Diseases/etiology/pathology/physiopathology;Glutamate-Ammonia Ligase/metabolism;Humans;Intestinal Mucosa/pathology/ physiology;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Papio anubis/anatomy & histology/genetics/ physiology;Permeability;Peroxidase/metabolism;Risk Factors;Tight Junction Proteins/metabolism;Aging;Cytokines;MicroRNA;Tight junctions
An SRF/miR-1 axis regulates NCX1 and annexin A5 protein levels in the normal and failing heart	E. Tritsch, et al.	2013	23436819	AIMS: The expression of the sodium/calcium exchanger NCX1 increases during cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure, playing an important role in Ca(2+) extrusion. This increase is presumed to result from stress signalling induced changes in the interplay between transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulations. We aimed to determine the impact of the SRF transcription factor known to regulate the NCX1 promoter and microRNA genes, on the expression of NCX1 mRNA and protein and annexin A5 (AnxA5), a Ca(2+)-binding protein interacting with NCX1 and increased during HF. METHODS AND RESULTS: NCX1 mRNA was decreased while the protein was increased in the failing heart of the cardiomyocyte-restricted SRF knock-out mice (SRF(HKO)). The induction of NCX1 mRNA by the pro-hypertrophic drug phenylephrine observed in control mice was abolished in the SRF(HKO) though the protein was strongly increased. AnxA5 protein expression profile paralleled the expression of NCX1 protein in the SRF(HKO). MiR-1, a microRNA regulated by SRF, was decreased in the SRF(HKO) and repressed by phenylephrine. In vitro and in vivo manipulation of miR-1 levels and site-directed mutagenesis showed that NCX1 and AnxA5 mRNAs are targets of miR-1. AnxA5 overexpression slowed down Ca(2+) extrusion during caffeine application in adult rat cardiomyocytes. CONCLUSION: Our study reveals the existence of a complex regulatory loop where SRF regulates the transcription of NCX1 and miR-1, which in turn functions as a rheostat limiting the translation of NCX1 and AnxA5 proteins. The decrease of miR-1 and increase of AnxA5 appear as important modulators of NCX1 expression and activity during heart failure.	Animals;Annexin A5/genetics/ metabolism;Caffeine/pharmacology;Calcium/metabolism;Calcium Signaling;Cardiomyopathy, Dilated/genetics/ metabolism/physiopathology;Cell Line;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression Regulation;Genotype;Heart Failure/genetics/ metabolism/physiopathology;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Mutation;Myocytes, Cardiac/drug effects/ metabolism;Phenotype;Phenylephrine/pharmacology;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Rats;Rats, Wistar;Serum Response Factor/deficiency/genetics/ metabolism;Sodium-Calcium Exchanger/genetics/ metabolism;Time Factors;Transfection;Annexin;Cardiomyopathy;Ncx1;Srf;microRNA
MicroRNAs: Important Epigenetic Regulators in Osteoarthritis	T. Trzeciak and M. Czarny-Ratajczak	2014	25598697	Multiple mechanisms are implicated in the development of primary osteoarthritis (OA), in which genetic and epigenetic factors appear to interact with environmental factors and age to initiate the disease and stimulate its progression. Changes in expression of microRNAs (miRs) contribute to development of osteoarthritis. Numerous miRs are involved in cartilage development, homeostasis and degradation through targeting genes expressed in this tissue. An important regulator of gene expression in human cartilage is miR-140, which directly targets a gene coding aggrecanase ADAMTS-5, that cleaves aggrecan in cartilage. This miR is considered a biological marker for cartilage and its level significantly decreases in OA cartilage. On the other hand, increased expression of miR-146a in early OA inhibits two other cartilage-degrading enzymes: MMP13 and ADAMTS4, and may provide a useful tool in developing treatments for OA. The COL2A1 gene, encoding collagen type II, which is the most abundant structural protein of the cartilage, is silenced by miR-34a and activated by miR-675. Every year, new targets of cartilage miRs are validated experimentally and this opens new possibilities for new therapies that control joint destruction and stimulate cartilage repair. At the same time development of next-generation sequencing technologies allows to identify new miRs involved in cartilage biology.	Cartilage;Gene expression profiling;Osteoarthritis.;microRNAs
Yin Yang 1-mediated epigenetic silencing of tumour-suppressive microRNAs activates nuclear factor-kappaB in hepatocellular carcinoma	D. P. Tsang, et al.	2016	26800240	Enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) catalyses histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3) to silence tumour-suppressor genes in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) but the process of locus-specific recruitment remains elusive. Here we investigated the transcription factors involved and the molecular consequences in HCC development. The genome-wide distribution of H3K27me3 was determined by chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with high-throughput sequencing or promoter array analyses in HCC cells from hepatitis B virus (HBV) X protein transgenic mouse and human cell models. Transcription factor binding site analysis was performed to identify EZH2-interacting transcription factors followed by functional characterization. Our cross-species integrative analysis revealed a crucial link between Yin Yang 1 (YY1) and EZH2-mediated H3K27me3 in HCC. Gene expression analysis of human HBV-associated HCC specimens demonstrated concordant overexpression of YY1 and EZH2, which correlated with poor survival of patients in advanced stages. The YY1 binding motif was significantly enriched in both in vivo and in vitro H3K27me3-occupied genes, including genes for 15 tumour-suppressive microRNAs. Knockdown of YY1 reduced not only global H3K27me3 levels, but also EZH2 and H3K27me3 promoter occupancy and DNA methylation, leading to the transcriptional up-regulation of microRNA-9 isoforms in HCC cells. Concurrent EZH2 knockdown and 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine treatment synergistically increased the levels of microRNA-9, which reduced the expression and transcriptional activity of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB). Functionally, YY1 promoted HCC tumourigenicity and inhibited apoptosis of HCC cells, at least partially through NF-kappaB activation. In conclusion, YY1 overexpression contributes to EZH2 recruitment for H3K27me3-mediated silencing of tumour-suppressive microRNAs, thereby activating NF-kappaB signalling in hepatocarcinogenesis.	Animals;Apoptosis;Binding Sites;Carcinoma, Hepatocellular/genetics/ metabolism/pathology/virology;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;DNA Methylation;Enhancer of Zeste Homolog 2 Protein;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Gene Silencing;Histones/metabolism;Humans;Liver Neoplasms/genetics/ metabolism/pathology/virology;Lysine;Methylation;Mice, Nude;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;NF-kappa B/ metabolism;Polycomb Repressive Complex 2/genetics/metabolism;Promoter Regions, Genetic;RNA Interference;Signal Transduction;Time Factors;Trans-Activators/genetics/metabolism;Transfection;Tumor Burden;Up-Regulation;YY1 Transcription Factor/genetics/ metabolism;ChIP-seq;Ezh2;histone modification;liver cancer
RPTOR, a novel target of miR-155, elicits a fibrotic phenotype of cystic fibrosis lung epithelium by upregulating CTGF	M. Tsuchiya, et al.	2016	27284727	Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by mutations in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene, the most frequent of which is F508del-CFTR. CF is characterized by excessive secretion of pro-inflammatory mediators into the airway lumen, inducing a highly inflammatory cellular phenotype. This process triggers fibrosis, causing airway destruction and leading to high morbidity and mortality. We previously reported that miR-155 is upregulated in CF lung epithelial cells, but the molecular mechanisms by which miR-155 affects the disease phenotype is not understood. Here we report that RPTOR (regulatory associated protein of mTOR, complex 1) is a novel target of miR-155 in CF lung epithelial cells. The suppression of RPTOR expression and subsequent activation of TGF-beta signaling resulted in the induction of fibrosis by elevating connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) abundance in CF lung epithelial cells. Thus, we propose that miR-155 might regulate fibrosis of CF lungs through the increased CTGF expression, highlighting its potential value in CF therapy.	Ctgf;Cystic fibrosis;Rptor;TGF-beta signaling;inflammation;lung epithelium;miR-155;microRNA
Role of microRNAs in the age-associated decline of pancreatic beta cell function in rat islets	K. Tugay, et al.	2016	26474776	AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Ageing can lead to reduced insulin sensitivity and loss of pancreatic beta cell function, predisposing individuals to the development of diabetes. The aim of this study was to assess the contribution of microRNAs (miRNAs) to age-associated beta cell dysfunction. METHODS: The global mRNA and miRNA profiles of 3- and 12-month-old rat islets were collected by microarray. The functional impact of age-associated differences in miRNA expression was investigated by mimicking the observed changes in primary beta cells from young animals. RESULTS: Beta cells from 12-month-old rats retained normal insulin content and secretion, but failed to proliferate in response to mitotic stimuli. The islets of these animals displayed modifications at the level of several miRNAs, including upregulation of miR-34a, miR-124a and miR-383, and downregulation of miR-130b and miR-181a. Computational analysis of the transcriptomic modifications observed in the islets of 12-month-old rats revealed that the differentially expressed genes were enriched for miR-34a and miR-181a targets. Indeed, the induction of miR-34a and reduction of miR-181a in the islets of young animals mimicked the impaired beta cell proliferation observed in old animals. mRNA coding for alpha-type platelet-derived growth factor receptor, which is critical for compensatory beta cell mass expansion, is directly inhibited by miR34a and is likely to be at least partly responsible for the effects of this miRNA. CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: Changes in the level of specific miRNAs that occur during ageing affect the proliferative capacity of beta cells. This might reduce their ability to expand under conditions of increased insulin demand, favouring the development of type 2 diabetes.	Aging;Animals;Apoptosis;Cell Proliferation;Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2/physiopathology;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Insulin/metabolism;Insulin Resistance;Insulin-Secreting Cells/ cytology/pathology;Islets of Langerhans/ cytology/pathology;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Rats;Rats, Wistar;Transcriptome;Transfection
PTG protein depletion rescues malin-deficient Lafora disease in mouse	J. Turnbull, et al.	2014	24419970	Ubiquitin ligases regulate quantities and activities of target proteins, often pleiotropically. The malin ubiquitin E3 ligase is reported to regulate autophagy, the misfolded protein response, microRNA silencing, Wnt signaling, neuronatin-mediated endoplasmic reticulum stress, and the laforin glycogen phosphatase. Malin deficiency causes Lafora disease, pathologically characterized by neurodegeneration and accumulations of malformed glycogen (Lafora bodies). We show that reducing glycogen production in malin-deficient mice by genetically removing PTG, a glycogen synthesis activator protein, nearly completely eliminates Lafora bodies and rescues the neurodegeneration, myoclonus, seizure susceptibility, and behavioral abnormality. Glycogen synthesis downregulation is a potential therapy for the fatal adolescence onset epilepsy Lafora disease.	Animals;Brain/metabolism/pathology;Conditioning (Psychology);Down-Regulation;Fear/psychology;Glycogen/metabolism;Glycogen Synthase/metabolism;Intracellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins/genetics/metabolism/ therapeutic;use;Lafora Disease/ enzymology/psychology/ therapy;Mice;Mice, Knockout;Myoclonus/enzymology/genetics/therapy;Neuroprotective Agents/metabolism;Plaque, Amyloid;Seizures/enzymology/genetics/therapy;Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases/ deficiency
Widespread microRNA dysregulation in multiple system atrophy - disease-related alteration in miR-96	K. Ubhi, et al.	2014	24304186	MicroRNA (miRNA) are short sequences of RNA that function as post-transcriptional regulators by binding to target mRNA transcripts resulting in translational repression. A number of recent studies have identified miRNA as being involved in neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and Huntington's disease. However, the role of miRNA in multiple system atrophy (MSA), a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by oligodendroglial accumulation of alpha-synuclein remains unexamined. In this context, this study examined miRNA profiles in MSA cases compared with controls and in transgenic (tg) models of MSA compared with non-tg mice. The results demonstrate a widespread dysregulation of miRNA in MSA cases, which is recapitulated in the murine models. The study employed a cross-disease, cross-species approach to identify miRNA that were either specifically dysregulated in MSA or were commonly dysregulated in neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, progressive supranuclear palsy and corticobasal degeneration or the tg mouse model equivalents of these disorders. Using this approach we identified a number of miRNA that were commonly dysregulated between disorders and those that were disease-specific. Moreover, we identified miR-96 as being up-regulated in MSA. Consistent with the up-regulation of miR-96, mRNA and protein levels of members of the solute carrier protein family SLC1A1 and SLC6A6, miR-96 target genes, were down-regulated in MSA cases and a tg model of MSA. These results suggest that miR-96 dysregulation may play a role in MSA and its target genes may be involved in the pathogenesis of MSA.	Alzheimer Disease/ metabolism;Animals;Case-Control Studies;Excitatory Amino Acid Transporter 3/genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Huntington Disease/ metabolism;Membrane Glycoproteins/genetics/metabolism;Membrane Transport Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Parkinson Disease/ metabolism;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;human;mouse;neurodegeneration;transgenic
Concomitant Evaluation of a Panel of Exosome Proteins and MiRs for Qualification of Cultured Human Corneal Endothelial Cells	M. Ueno, et al.	2016	27564521	PURPOSE: We elucidate a method to use secreted miRNA profiles to qualify cultured human corneal endothelial cells (cHCECs) adaptable for cell-injection therapy. METHODS: The variations of cHCECs in their composites of heterogeneous subpopulations (SPs) were verified in relation to their surface cluster-of-differentiation (CD) markers. Integrated analysis of micro RNA (miRNA) profiles in culture supernatants (CS) were investigated by 3D-Gene Human microRNA Chips. To validate 3D-Gene results, quantitative real-time PCR was done from numerous cultures with distinct morphology and SP composition. Exosomes and miRNAs in CS also were analyzed. RESULTS: Secreted miRNA profiles among morphologically-diverse cHCEC SPs proved useful for individual distinction. Candidate miRNAs to discriminate CD44- SPs from those with CD44++ approximately CD44+++ phenotypes were miRs 221-3p, 1246, 1915-3p, and 4732-5p. The levels of the latter-three miRs decreased dramatically in cHCEC CS without cell-state transition (CST) compared to those of control medium, whereas those from cHCECs with senescence-like CST showed an increase. MicroR184 decreased inversely in parallel with the upregulation of CD44 on cHCECs. CD9+ exosomes were more elevated in cHCEC CS with senescence-like CST than those without CST, indicating the possible import of these extracellular vesicles (EVs) into cHCECs without CST. CONCLUSIONS: Cultured HCECs sharing a CD44- phenotype of matured HCECs may be discriminated by measuring the amount of miRNAs or exosome in CS. Thus, miRNA in CS may serve as a tool to qualify cHCECs. Future detailed analysis of cell-to-cell communication via these EVs might open novel pathways for a better understanding of CST in HCEC cultures.	Cells, Cultured;Endothelium, Corneal/cytology/ metabolism;Exosomes/ metabolism;Flow Cytometry;Humans;Immunoblotting;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;Microscopy, Phase-Contrast;Phenotype;RNA/ genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Tissue Engineering/ methods
Gene Signature-Based Development of ELISA Assays for Reproducible Qualification of Cultured Human Corneal Endothelial Cells	M. Ueno, et al.	2016	27552407	PURPOSE: To develop a method to qualify the function of cultured human corneal endothelial cells (cHCECs) applicable for clinical settings. METHODS: The diversified gene and microRNA (miRNA) signatures in HCECs from a variety of tissue donors were confirmed by three-dimensional (3D) gene human miRNA profiling. These were compared with those of more than 20 cHCECs distinct in their cell morphology or culture lots. Candidate genes were selected after quantitative (q)RT-PCR validation, and gene products were assayed by ELISA. After three additional screening steps, final candidate cytokines for qualification were selected. RESULTS: Gene and miRNA signatures among distinct cHCEC lots were greatly diversified compared with those among fresh tissues from different age donors. By comparing more than 20 lots of cultures, 32 candidate genes were assigned to be seemingly linked to distinct cHCEC morphologic features. The validation of candidate genes by qRT-PCR revealed the genes, either upregulated or downregulated, corresponding to morphologic variances in cHCECs (e.g., epithelial-mesenchymal transition or cell senescence). Further adding the ELISA results by Bio-Plex Human Cytokine 27-Plex Panel, 11 candidate cytokines suitable to qualify cHCEC function were selected. In consideration of the presence of these cytokines in the anterior chamber, IL-8, tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinases 1 (TIMP-1), monocyte chemotactic protein-1 (MCP-1), and platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB) were ultimately selected and applied in practice for the qualification of cHCECs actually used in our clinical cell-injection studies. CONCLUSIONS: The specified cytokines properly discriminating the functional features of cHCECs indicates a correlation between profiling signatures and cell morphology.	Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Cells, Cultured;Child;Cytokines/biosynthesis/ genetics;Endothelium, Corneal/cytology/ metabolism;Enzyme-Linked Immunosorbent Assay/methods;Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition;Female;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Imaging, Three-Dimensional;Male;Microscopy, Phase-Contrast;Middle Aged;RNA, Messenger/biosynthesis/ genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Young Adult
Aging and chronic DNA damage response activate a regulatory pathway involving miR-29 and p53	A. P. Ugalde, et al.	2011	21522133	Aging is a multifactorial process that affects most of the biological functions of the organism and increases susceptibility to disease and death. Recent studies with animal models of accelerated aging have unveiled some mechanisms that also operate in physiological aging. However, little is known about the role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in this process. To address this question, we have analysed miRNA levels in Zmpste24-deficient mice, a model of Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome. We have found that expression of the miR-29 family of miRNAs is markedly upregulated in Zmpste24(-/-) progeroid mice as well as during normal aging in mouse. Functional analysis revealed that this transcriptional activation of miR-29 is triggered in response to DNA damage and occurs in a p53-dependent manner since p53(-/-) murine fibroblasts do not increase miR-29 expression upon doxorubicin treatment. We have also found that miR-29 represses Ppm1d phosphatase, which in turn enhances p53 activity. Based on these results, we propose the existence of a novel regulatory circuitry involving miR-29, Ppm1d and p53, which is activated in aging and in response to DNA damage.	Aging;Animals;Cells, Cultured;DNA Damage;Disease Models, Animal;Fibroblasts/physiology;Gene Expression Regulation;Membrane Proteins/deficiency;Metalloendopeptidases/deficiency;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Molecular Sequence Data;Phosphoprotein Phosphatases/ biosynthesis;Protein Phosphatase 2C;Sequence Analysis, DNA;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ biosynthesis
Proteome alteration in oxidative stress-sensitive methionine sulfoxide reductase-silenced HEK293 cells	N. Ugarte, et al.	2013	23988788	Methionine sulfoxide reductases (Msr's) are key enzymes proficient in catalyzing the reduction of oxidized methionines. This reductive trait is essential to maintaining cellular redox homeostasis from bacteria to mammals and is also regarded as a potential mechanism to regulate protein activities and signaling pathways, considering the inactivating effects that can be induced by methionine oxidation. In this study, we have generated stable human embryonic kidney HEK293 clones with an altered Msr system by silencing the expression of the main Msr elements-MsrA, MsrB1, or MsrB2. The isolated clones--the single mutants MsrA, MsrB1, and MsrB2 and double mutant MsrA/B1-show a reduced Msr activity and an exacerbated sensitivity toward oxidative stress. A two-dimensional difference in-gel electrophoresis analysis was performed on the Msr-silenced cells grown under basal conditions or submitted to oxidative stress. This proteomic analysis revealed that the disruption of the Msr system mainly affects proteins with redox, cytoskeletal or protein synthesis, and maintenance roles. Interestingly, most of the proteins found altered in the Msr mutants were also identified as potential Msr substrates and have been associated with redox or aging processes in previous studies. This study, through an extensive analysis of Msr-inhibited mutants, offers valuable input on the cellular network of a crucial maintenance system such as methionine sulfoxide reductases.	Gene Knockdown Techniques;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Methionine Sulfoxide Reductases/ genetics/metabolism;Oxidants/pharmacology;Oxidative Stress;Protein Interaction Maps;Proteome/ metabolism;RNA Interference;Taurine/analogs & derivatives/pharmacology;2d-dige;Adaptive response;Free radicals;Hek;Methionine sulfoxide reductases;Msr;Oxidized protein repair;Proteomics;RNA silencing;RNAi;Ros;TnCl;human embryonic kidney cell line;methionine sulfoxide reductase;miRNA;microRNA;reactive oxygen species;taurine chloramine.;two-dimensional difference in-gel electrophoresis
MicroRNA-574-3p, identified by microRNA library-based functional screening, modulates tamoxifen response in breast cancer	T. Ujihira, et al.	2015	25560734	Most primary breast cancers express estrogen receptor alpha and can be treated via endocrine therapy using anti-estrogens such as tamoxifen; however, acquired endocrine resistance is a critical issue. To identify tamoxifen response-related microRNAs (miRNAs) in breast cancer, MCF-7 cells infected with a lentiviral miRNA library were treated with 4-hydroxytamoxifen (OHT) or vehicle for 4 weeks, and the amounts of individual miRNA precursors that had integrated into the genome were evaluated by microarray. Compared to the vehicle-treated cells, 5 'dropout' miRNAs, which were downregulated in OHT-treated cells, and 6 'retained' miRNAs, which were upregulated in OHT-treated cells, were identified. Of the dropout miRNAs, we found that miR-574-3p expression was downregulated in clinical breast cancer tissues as compared with their paired adjacent tissues. In addition, anti-miR-574-3p reversed tamoxifen-mediated suppression of MCF-7 cell growth. Clathrin heavy chain (CLTC) was identified as a miR-574-3p target gene by in silico algorithms and luciferase reporter assay using the 3' untranslated region of CLTC mRNA. Interestingly, loss and gain of miR-574-3p function in MCF-7 cells causes CLTC to be upregulated and downregulated, respectively. These results suggest that functional screening mediated by miRNA libraries can provide new insights into the genes essential for tamoxifen response in breast cancer.	3' Untranslated Regions;Algorithms;Antineoplastic Agents, Hormonal/ toxicity;Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Breast Neoplasms/genetics/pathology;Cell Proliferation/drug effects;Clathrin/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/metabolism;Down-Regulation/ drug effects;Female;Gene Library;Humans;MCF-7 Cells;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;Oligonucleotides, Antisense/metabolism;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/metabolism;Sequence Alignment;Tamoxifen/ analogs & derivatives/toxicity;Up-Regulation/ drug effects
MicroRNA-199a-3p, microRNA-193b, and microRNA-320c are correlated to aging and regulate human cartilage metabolism	T. Ukai, et al.	2012	22674437	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small RNAs of approximately 22 base pairs that regulate gene expression. We harvested cartilage tissue from patients with polydactylism, anterior cruciate ligament injury, and osteoarthritis undergoing total knee arthroplasty and used microarrays to identify miRNAs whose expression is upregulated or downregulated with age. The results were assessed by real-time PCR and MTT assay in a mimic group, in which synthetic double-stranded RNA from the isolated miRNA was transfected to upregulate expression, and in an inhibitor group, in which the miRNA was bound specifically to downregulate expression. The expression of two miRNAs (miR-199a-3p and miR-193b) was upregulated with age and that of one miRNA (miR-320c) was downregulated with age. A real-time PCR assay showed that type 2 collagen, aggrecan, and SOX9 expression were downregulated in the miR-199a-3p mimic group but was upregulated in the inhibitor group. Similar results were observed for miR-193b. By contrast, ADAMTS5 expression was downregulated in the miR-320c mimic group and upregulated in the inhibitor group. Cell proliferative activity was upregulated significantly in the miR-193b inhibitor group compared with the control group. We believe that miR-199a-3p and miR-193b are involved in the senescence of chondrocytes, and miR-320c is involved in the juvenile properties of chondrocytes.	Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Aging;Cartilage/ metabolism;Chondrocytes/cytology;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Infant;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism/ physiology;Middle Aged;Models, Biological;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis/methods;Osteoarthritis/metabolism
In silico analysis of SIGMAR1 variant (rs4879809) segregating in a consanguineous Pakistani family showing amyotrophic lateral sclerosis without frontotemporal lobar dementia	M. I. Ullah, et al.	2015	26205306	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disorder affecting upper motor neurons in the brain and lower motor neurons in the brain stem and spinal cord, resulting in fatal paralysis. It has been found to be associated with frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). In the present study, we have described homozygosity mapping and gene sequencing in a consanguineous autosomal recessive Pakistani family showing non-juvenile ALS without signs of FTLD. Gene mapping was carried out in all recruited family members using microsatellite markers, and linkage was established with sigma non-opioid intracellular receptor 1 (SIGMAR1) gene at chromosome 9p13.2. Gene sequencing of SIGMAR1 revealed a novel 3'-UTR nucleotide variation c.672*31A>G (rs4879809) segregating with disease in this family. The C9ORF72 repeat region in intron 1, previously implicated in a related phenotype, was excluded through linkage, and further confirmation of exclusion was obtained by amplifying intron 1 of C9ORF72 with multiple primers in affected individuals and controls. In silico analysis was carried out to explore the possible role of 3'-UTR variant of SIGMAR1 in ALS. The Regulatory RNA motif and Element Finder program revealed disturbance in miRNA (hsa-miR-1205) binding site due to this variation. ESEFinder analysis showed new SRSF1 and SRSF1-IgM-BRCA1 binding sites with significant scores due to this variation. Our results indicate that the 3'-UTR SIGMAR1 variant c.672*31A>G may have a role in the pathogenesis of ALS in this family.	3' Untranslated Regions;Adult;Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/ genetics;Asian Continental Ancestry Group/genetics;Chromosome Mapping;Chromosomes, Human, Pair 9;Computer Simulation;Consanguinity;Frontotemporal Dementia/ genetics;Genetic Linkage;Humans;Male;Pakistan;Pedigree;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Receptors, sigma/ genetics;3'-utr;Als;Sigmar1
Increased intracellular pH is necessary for adult epithelial and embryonic stem cell differentiation	B. Ulmschneider, et al.	2016	27821494	Despite extensive knowledge about the transcriptional regulation of stem cell differentiation, less is known about the role of dynamic cytosolic cues. We report that an increase in intracellular pH (pHi) is necessary for the efficient differentiation of Drosophila adult follicle stem cells (FSCs) and mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs). We show that pHi increases with differentiation from FSCs to prefollicle cells (pFCs) and follicle cells. Loss of the Drosophila Na+-H+ exchanger DNhe2 lowers pHi in differentiating cells, impairs pFC differentiation, disrupts germarium morphology, and decreases fecundity. In contrast, increasing pHi promotes excess pFC cell differentiation toward a polar/stalk cell fate through suppressing Hedgehog pathway activity. Increased pHi also occurs with mESC differentiation and, when prevented, attenuates spontaneous differentiation of naive cells, as determined by expression of microRNA clusters and stage-specific markers. Our findings reveal a previously unrecognized role of pHi dynamics for the differentiation of two distinct types of stem cell lineages, which opens new directions for understanding conserved regulatory mechanisms.	Aging/ physiology;Animals;Cell Differentiation;Cell Lineage;Drosophila Proteins/metabolism;Drosophila melanogaster/ cytology/metabolism;Epithelial Cells/ cytology/metabolism;Female;Hedgehog Proteins/metabolism;Hydrogen-Ion Concentration;Intracellular Space/ metabolism;Mice;Mouse Embryonic Stem Cells/ cytology/metabolism;Ovarian Follicle/cytology;Signal Transduction
Aging-induced dysregulation of dicer1-dependent microRNA expression impairs angiogenic capacity of rat cerebromicrovascular endothelial cells	Z. Ungvari, et al.	2013	23239824	Age-related impairment of angiogenesis is likely to play a central role in cerebromicrovascular rarefaction and development of vascular cognitive impairment, but the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. To test the hypothesis that dysregulation of Dicer1 (ribonuclease III, a key enzyme of the microRNA [miRNA] machinery) impairs endothelial angiogenic capacity in aging, primary cerebromicrovascular endothelial cells (CMVECs) were isolated from young (3 months old) and aged (24 months old) Fischer 344 x Brown Norway rats. We found an age-related downregulation of Dicer1 expression both in CMVECs and in small cerebral vessels isolated from aged rats. In aged CMVECs, Dicer1 expression was increased by treatment with polyethylene glycol-catalase. Compared with young cells, aged CMVECs exhibited altered miRNA expression profile, which was associated with impaired proliferation, adhesion to vitronectin, collagen and fibronectin, cellular migration (measured by a wound-healing assay using electric cell-substrate impedance sensing technology), and impaired ability to form capillary-like structures. Overexpression of Dicer1 in aged CMVECs partially restored miRNA expression profile and significantly improved angiogenic processes. In young CMVECs, downregulation of Dicer1 (siRNA) resulted in altered miRNA expression profile associated with impaired proliferation, adhesion, migration, and tube formation, mimicking the aging phenotype. Collectively, we found that Dicer1 is essential for normal endothelial angiogenic processes, suggesting that age-related dysregulation of Dicer1-dependent miRNA expression may be a potential mechanism underlying impaired angiogenesis and cerebromicrovascular rarefaction in aging.	Aging/ genetics/pathology/physiology;Animals;Brain/ blood supply;Cell Adhesion;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/genetics/ metabolism;Down-Regulation;Endothelial Cells/metabolism/pathology;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Microvessels/metabolism/pathology;Neovascularization, Physiologic/ genetics;Oxidative Stress;Rats;Rats, Inbred BN;Rats, Inbred F344;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Ribonuclease III/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;Angiogenesis;Capillary density;Cardiovascular aging;Cerebrovascular;Epigenetics.;Vascular aging
Integrative miRNA and whole-genome analyses of epicardial adipose tissue in patients with coronary atherosclerosis	M. Vacca, et al.	2016	26645979	BACKGROUND: Epicardial adipose tissue (EAT) is an atypical fat depot surrounding the heart with a putative role in the development of atherosclerosis. METHODS AND RESULTS: We profiled genes and miRNAs in perivascular EAT and subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) of metabolically healthy patients without coronary artery disease (CAD) vs. metabolic patients with CAD. Compared with SAT, a specific tuning of miRNAs and genes points to EAT as a tissue characterized by a metabolically active and pro-inflammatory profile. Then, we depicted both miRNA and gene signatures of EAT in CAD, featuring a down-regulation of genes involved in lipid metabolism, mitochondrial function, nuclear receptor transcriptional activity, and an up-regulation of those involved in antigen presentation, chemokine signalling, and inflammation. Finally, we identified miR-103-3p as candidate modulator of CCL13 in EAT, and a potential biomarker role for the chemokine CCL13 in CAD. CONCLUSION: EAT in CAD is characterized by changes in the regulation of metabolism and inflammation with miR-103-3p/CCL13 pair as novel putative actors in EAT function and CAD.	Adipose Tissue/ metabolism;Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Atherosclerosis/ genetics;Chemokines/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation/ genetics;Genetic Predisposition to Disease/ genetics;Genome, Human;Genome-Wide Association Study;Humans;Inflammation/genetics;Lipid Metabolism/ genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Epicardial adipose tissue;Gene expression;Metabolic syndrome;Nuclear receptors;miRNA
MicroRNA-135b promotes cancer progression by acting as a downstream effector of oncogenic pathways in colon cancer	N. Valeri, et al.	2014	24735923	MicroRNA deregulation is frequent in human colorectal cancers (CRCs), but little is known as to whether it represents a bystander event or actually drives tumor progression in vivo. We show that miR-135b overexpression is triggered in mice and humans by APC loss, PTEN/PI3K pathway deregulation, and SRC overexpression and promotes tumor transformation and progression. We show that miR-135b upregulation is common in sporadic and inflammatory bowel disease-associated human CRCs and correlates with tumor stage and poor clinical outcome. Inhibition of miR-135b in CRC mouse models reduces tumor growth by controlling genes involved in proliferation, invasion, and apoptosis. We identify miR-135b as a key downsteam effector of oncogenic pathways and a potential target for CRC treatment.	Animals;Cell Growth Processes/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Colonic Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Disease Models, Animal;Disease Progression;Heterografts;Humans;Immunohistochemistry;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Transfection
A coding-independent function of an alternative Ube3a transcript during neuronal development	J. Valluy, et al.	2015	25867122	The E3 ubiquitin ligase Ube3a is an important regulator of activity-dependent synapse development and plasticity. Ube3a mutations cause Angelman syndrome and have been associated with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). However, the biological significance of alternative Ube3a transcripts generated in mammalian neurons remains unknown. We report here that Ube3a1 RNA, a transcript that encodes a truncated Ube3a protein lacking catalytic activity, prevents exuberant dendrite growth and promotes spine maturation in rat hippocampal neurons. Surprisingly, Ube3a1 RNA function was independent of its coding sequence but instead required a unique 3' untranslated region and an intact microRNA pathway. Ube3a1 RNA knockdown increased activity of the plasticity-regulating miR-134, suggesting that Ube3a1 RNA acts as a dendritic competing endogenous RNA. Accordingly, the dendrite-growth-promoting effect of Ube3a1 RNA knockdown in vivo is abolished in mice lacking miR-134. Taken together, our results define a noncoding function of an alternative Ube3a transcript in dendritic protein synthesis, with potential implications for Angelman syndrome and ASD.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Animals;Dendrites/ultrastructure;Excitatory Postsynaptic Potentials/physiology;Frameshift Mutation;HEK293 Cells;Hippocampus/cytology/metabolism;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics;Miniature Postsynaptic Potentials/physiology;Molecular Sequence Data;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics/ physiology;Neurogenesis/ genetics;Neurons/ultrastructure;Protein Biosynthesis;Protein Isoforms/genetics/physiology;RNA Interference;RNA Splicing;RNA, Messenger/genetics/ physiology;RNA, Small Interfering/pharmacology;Rats;Transfection;Ubiquitin-Protein Ligases/ genetics
Expression of Muscle-Specific MiRNA 206 in the Progression of Disease in a Murine SMA Model	V. Valsecchi, et al.	2015	26030275	Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a severe neuromuscular disease, the most common in infancy, and the third one among young people under 18 years. The major pathological landmark of SMA is a selective degeneration of lower motor neurons, resulting in progressive skeletal muscle denervation, atrophy, and paralysis. Recently, it has been shown that specific or general changes in the activity of ribonucleoprotein containing micro RNAs (miRNAs) play a role in the development of SMA. Additionally miRNA-206 has been shown to be required for efficient regeneration of neuromuscular synapses after acute nerve injury in an ALS mouse model. Therefore, we correlated the morphology and the architecture of the neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) of quadriceps, a muscle affected in the early stage of the disease, with the expression levels of miRNA-206 in a mouse model of intermediate SMA (SMAII), one of the most frequently used experimental model. Our results showed a decrease in the percentage of type II fibers, an increase in atrophic muscle fibers and a remarkable accumulation of neurofilament (NF) in the pre-synaptic terminal of the NMJs in the quadriceps of SMAII mice. Furthermore, molecular investigation showed a direct link between miRNA-206-HDAC4-FGFBP1, and in particular, a strong up-regulation of this pathway in the late phase of the disease. We propose that miRNA-206 is activated as survival endogenous mechanism, although not sufficient to rescue the integrity of motor neurons. We speculate that early modulation of miRNA-206 expression might delay SMA neurodegenerative pathway and that miRNA-206 could be an innovative, still relatively unexplored, therapeutic target for SMA.	Animals;Carrier Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Disease Progression;Histone Deacetylases/genetics/metabolism;Humans;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Motor Neurons/ metabolism/pathology;Muscular Atrophy, Spinal/genetics/ metabolism/pathology
MicroRNA-18 and microRNA-19 regulate CTGF and TSP-1 expression in age-related heart failure	G. C. van Almen, et al.	2011	21501375	To understand the process of cardiac aging, it is of crucial importance to gain insight into the age-related changes in gene expression in the senescent failing heart. Age-related cardiac remodeling is known to be accompanied by changes in extracellular matrix (ECM) gene and protein levels. Small noncoding microRNAs regulate gene expression in cardiac development and disease and have been implicated in the aging process and in the regulation of ECM proteins. However, their role in age-related cardiac remodeling and heart failure is unknown. In this study, we investigated the aging-associated microRNA cluster 17-92, which targets the ECM proteins connective tissue growth factor (CTGF) and thrombospondin-1 (TSP-1). We employed aged mice with a failure-resistant (C57Bl6) and failure-prone (C57Bl6 x 129Sv) genetic background and extrapolated our findings to human age-associated heart failure. In aging-associated heart failure, we linked an aging-induced increase in the ECM proteins CTGF and TSP-1 to a decreased expression of their targeting microRNAs 18a, 19a, and 19b, all members of the miR-17-92 cluster. Failure-resistant mice showed an opposite expression pattern for both the ECM proteins and the microRNAs. We showed that these expression changes are specific for cardiomyocytes and are absent in cardiac fibroblasts. In cardiomyocytes, modulation of miR-18/19 changes the levels of ECM proteins CTGF and TSP-1 and collagens type 1 and 3. Together, our data support a role for cardiomyocyte-derived miR-18/19 during cardiac aging, in the fine-tuning of cardiac ECM protein levels. During aging, decreased miR-18/19 and increased CTGF and TSP-1 levels identify the failure-prone heart.	Adult;Aged;Aging/genetics/physiology;Animals;Biopsy;Collagen/metabolism;Connective Tissue Growth Factor/genetics/ metabolism;Extracellular Matrix/genetics/metabolism;Fibrosis/genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Heart/physiology;Heart Failure/ pathology;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Multigene Family;Myocytes, Cardiac/cytology/metabolism;Rats;Rats, Inbred Lew;Thrombospondin 1/genetics/ metabolism
Endothelial cells require miR-214 to secrete exosomes that suppress senescence and induce angiogenesis in human and mouse endothelial cells	B. W. van Balkom, et al.	2013	23532734	Signaling between endothelial cells, endothelial progenitor cells, and stromal cells is crucial for the establishment and maintenance of vascular integrity and involves exosomes, among other signaling pathways. Exosomes are important mediators of intercellular communication in immune signaling, tumor survival, stress responses, and angiogenesis. The ability of exosomes to incorporate and transfer messenger RNAs (mRNAs) encoding for "acquired" proteins or micro RNAs (miRNAs) repressing "resident" mRNA translation suggests that they can influence the physiological behavior of recipient cells. We demonstrate that miR-214, an miRNA that controls endothelial cell function and angiogenesis, plays a dominant role in exosome-mediated signaling between endothelial cells. Endothelial cell-derived exosomes stimulated migration and angiogenesis in recipient cells, whereas exosomes from miR-214-depleted endothelial cells failed to stimulate these processes. Exosomes containing miR-214 repressed the expression of ataxia telangiectasia mutated in recipient cells, thereby preventing senescence and allowing blood vessel formation. Concordantly, specific reduction of miR-214 content in exosome-producing endothelial cells abolishes the angiogenesis stimulatory function of the resulting exosomes. Collectively, our data indicate that endothelial cells release miR-214-containing exosomes to stimulate angiogenesis through the silencing of ataxia telangiectasia mutated in neighboring target cells.	Animals;Ataxia Telangiectasia Mutated Proteins;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Cycle Proteins/genetics/physiology;Cells, Cultured;DNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/physiology;Down-Regulation;Endothelial Cells/metabolism/ secretion;Exosomes/ physiology/ secretion;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ physiology;Neovascularization, Physiologic/genetics/physiology;Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases/genetics/physiology;Secretory Pathway/genetics;Tumor Suppressor Proteins/genetics/physiology
GeneFriends: a human RNA-seq-based gene and transcript co-expression database	S. van Dam, et al.	2015	25361971	Co-expression networks have proven effective at assigning putative functions to genes based on the functional annotation of their co-expressed partners, in candidate gene prioritization studies and in improving our understanding of regulatory networks. The growing number of genome resequencing efforts and genome-wide association studies often identify loci containing novel genes and there is a need to infer their functions and interaction partners. To facilitate this we have expanded GeneFriends, an online database that allows users to identify co-expressed genes with one or more user-defined genes. This expansion entails an RNA-seq-based co-expression map that includes genes and transcripts that are not present in the microarray-based co-expression maps, including over 10,000 non-coding RNAs. The results users obtain from GeneFriends include a co-expression network as well as a summary of the functional enrichment among the co-expressed genes. Novel insights can be gathered from this database for different splice variants and ncRNAs, such as microRNAs and lincRNAs. Furthermore, our updated tool allows candidate transcripts to be linked to diseases and processes using a guilt-by-association approach. GeneFriends is freely available from http://www.GeneFriends.org and can be used to quickly identify and rank candidate targets relevant to the process or disease under study.	Databases, Genetic;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Regulatory Networks;Humans;Internet;RNA, Untranslated/ metabolism;Sequence Analysis, RNA
Differential Expression of microRNA in Cerebrospinal Fluid as a Potential Novel Biomarker for Alzheimer's Disease	A. C. van Harten, et al.	2015	26402772	BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: The need to find a better reflection of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathophysiology led us to investigate differential expression of microRNA (miRNA) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of AD patients compared to matched controls, using a genome-wide data-driven approach. METHODS: From the Amsterdam Dementia Cohort, we selected 19 AD patients with CSF indicative of AD pathophysiology and 19 age and gender-matched controls without CSF evidence of AD (67 +/- 6 years old, 20 [53%] female). We measured 754 miRNA in CSF using qRT-PCR (Taqman Array MicroRNA cards A and B, v3.0) according to the Megaplex Taqman protocol. Hierarchical cluster analysis was performed and groups were compared using Linear Models for Microarray Data, a modified t-test. We performed validation analysis using qRT-PCR single assays. RESULTS: 144 +/- 66 miRNA could be detected using Megaplex array analysis (19% ). Mean Ct (average 32.4 +/- 0.5) was correlated to age (r = 0.52, p = 0.001). Five miRNA were differentially expressed in CSF of AD patients. None of these could be replicated. After stratification by age, seven miRNA showed differential expression in late-onset AD, of which lower abundance of let-7a was replicated (log10RQ -1.46, p < 0.05). In early-onset AD, twelve miRNA were differentially expressed of which lower abundance of miRNA-532-3p remained borderline significant (log10RQ -1.27, p = 0.05). CONCLUSION: Although we could not consistently separate AD patients and controls in the whole group, we have found indications miRNA in CSF are able to reflect aging and perhaps also heterogeneity in AD. Further investigation requires optimizing RNA input, while maintaining strict age matching.	Aged;Alzheimer Disease/ cerebrospinal fluid;Biomarkers/cerebrospinal fluid;Case-Control Studies;Databases, Bibliographic/statistics & numerical data;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ cerebrospinal fluid/genetics;Middle Aged;Psychiatric Status Rating Scales;RNA, Messenger/cerebrospinal fluid;Alzheimer's disease;biomarkers;cerebrospinal fluid;microRNAs
DNA damage responsive microRNAs misexpressed in human cancer modulate therapy sensitivity	M. T. van Jaarsveld, et al.	2014	24462518	The DNA damage response (DDR) is activated upon DNA damage and prevents accumulation of mutations and chromosomal rearrangements, both driving carcinogenesis. Tumor cells often have defects in the DDR, which in combination with continuous cell proliferation are exploited by genotoxic cancer therapies. Most cancers, overcome initial sensitivity and develop drug resistance, e.g. by modulation of the DDR. Not much is known, however, about DNA damage responsive microRNAs in cancer therapy resistance. Therefore, we mapped temporal microRNA expression changes in primary breast epithelial cells upon low and high dose exposure to the DNA damaging agents ionizing radiation and cisplatin. A third of all DDR microRNAs commonly regulated across all treatments was also misexpressed in breast cancer, indicating a DDR defect. We repeated this approach in primary lung epithelial cells and non-small cell lung cancer samples and found that more than 40% of all DDR microRNAs was deregulated in non-small cell lung cancer. Strikingly, the microRNA response upon genotoxic stress in primary breast and lung epithelial cells was markedly different, although the biological outcome of DNA damage signaling (cell death/senescence or survival) was similar. Several DDR microRNAs deregulated in cancer modulated sensitivity to anti-cancer agents. In addition we were able to distinguish between microRNAs that induced resistance by potentially inducing quiescence (miR-296-5p and miR-382) or enhancing DNA repair or increased DNA damage tolerance (miR-21). In conclusion, we provide evidence that DNA damage responsive microRNAs are frequently misexpressed in human cancer and can modulate chemotherapy sensitivity.	Antineoplastic Agents/pharmacology;Cell Line, Tumor;Cells, Cultured;DNA Damage;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neoplasms/drug therapy/ genetics;Cancer;Chemotherapy;DNA damage response;MicroRNAs;Therapy resistance
Protective effect of caffeine against high sugar-induced transcription of microRNAs and consequent gene silencing: a study using lenses of galactosemic mice	S. D. Varma and S. Kovtun	2013	23441122	PURPOSE: Previous studies have shown that caffeine prevents the formation of cataracts induced by a high-galactose diet and consequent oxidative stress. The objective of this study was to investigate if this protective effect is reflected in the attenuation of the transcription of microRNAs (miRNAs) known to induce apoptosis and cell death by gene silencing. METHODS: Young CD-1 mice were fed either a normal laboratory diet or a diet containing 25% galactose with or without 1% caffeine. One week later, the animals were euthanized, and the lenses isolated and promptly processed for RNA isolation and subsequent preparation of cDNAs by reverse transcriptase reaction. Mature miRNA (miR)-specific cDNAs were then quantified with PCR in a 96-well microRNA-specific cassette using an ABI7900HT PCR machine. RESULTS: As expected from previous studies, the lenses were positive for all 84 miRs corresponding to the miRNA probes present in the cassette wells. However, the levels of at least 19 miRs were significantly elevated in galactosemic lenses compared to those in the normal lenses. The majority are proapoptotic. Such elevation was inhibited by caffeine. This has been demonstrated for the first time. CONCLUSIONS: Since aberrant elevation of miRNAs silences various genes and consequently deactivates protein translation, and since caffeine downregulates such aberration, the beneficial effect of caffeine could be attributed to its ability to suppress elevation of toxic miRs and consequent gene silencing.	Animals;Caffeine/ pharmacology;Cataract/genetics/metabolism/prevention & control;Disease Models, Animal;Galactose/pharmacology;Galactosemias/ complications/ genetics/metabolism;Gene Silencing/ drug effects;Humans;Lens, Crystalline/ drug effects/ metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred Strains;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Oxidative Stress/genetics;Transcription, Genetic/drug effects
Effect of high sugar levels on miRNA expression. Studies with galactosemic mice lenses	S. D. Varma, et al.	2012	22736950	PURPOSE: Development of cataract is associated with apoptotic death of the lens epithelial cells. The purpose of this investigation was to examine whether this could be explained by enhancement in the expression of certain pro-apoptotic microRNAs (miRs), known to induce apoptosis by hybridizing with target mRNAs, with the consequence of gene silencing. In addition, it was intended to investigate if such expression could be antagonized by reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavengers. METHODS: CD-1 mice weighing about 20 g were divided into three groups and fed diets, respectively, as follows: Control diet, 25% galactose diet, and 25% galactose diet containing 1% sodium pyruvate. After eight days of such a regimen, the mice were euthanized, their lenses promptly isolated and frozen in liquid nitrogen, and RNAs isolated by extraction with standard methods and converted to cDNAs. The miR-specific cDNAs were then quantified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using a 96-well microRNA array cassette using an ABI 7900 HT PCR machine. The results were then analyzed using Bioscience software. RESULTS: The lens samples were positive for all of the 84 miRs expected, on the basis of the specific sequences used for amplification. However, as would be apparent from the microarray plot for the normal and galactosemic lenses, expression of at least 24 apoptotic miRs was upregulated. Six apoptotic miRs were downregulated. In the lenses of animals where the galactose diet was fortified with sodium pyruvate, the expression of 12 miRs was completely prevented. The upregulation observed in the other 14 miRs was also significantly downregulated. A comparison of the galactose and galactose plus pyruvate group clearly indicated that pyruvate inhibits the transcription of apoptotic miRS. CONCLUSIONS: The prevention of galactose-induced enhancement in the expression of apoptotic miRs by pyruvate, a compound well known to scavenge reactive oxygen species as well as to inhibit their formation, strongly suggests that the upregulation of miRs in galactosemic animals is due to generation of reactive oxygen species. This is in conformity with our previous studies showing that pyruvate and other ROS scavengers inhibit apoptosis as well as cataract formation.	Administration, Oral;Animals;Apoptosis/drug effects;DNA, Complementary/biosynthesis;Down-Regulation/drug effects/genetics;Epithelial Cells/cytology/ drug effects/metabolism;Food, Formulated;Free Radical Scavengers/administration & dosage/ therapeutic use;Galactose/administration & dosage/ adverse effects;Lens, Crystalline/cytology/ drug effects/metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Polymerase Chain Reaction;Pyruvates/administration & dosage/ therapeutic use;Reactive Oxygen Species/antagonists & inhibitors;Up-Regulation/drug effects/genetics
miR-146a is modulated in human endothelial cell with aging	M. Vasa-Nicotera, et al.	2011	21511256	BACKGROUND: Increasing evidence has demonstrated that the senescence of vascular endothelial cells has critical roles in the pathogenesis of vascular dysfunction such as atherosclerosis and thrombosis. MicroRNA (miR) are small non-coding RNAs that inhibit gene expression by binding to complementary sequences in the 3'UTR of their target mRNAs. MiRs modulate a variety of biological functions such as cell development, cell differentiation, and apoptosis. Moreover, several miRs involved in endothelial cell function have been identified. METHODS AND RESULTS: Through a microarray approach, we have identified a miR-146a that is progressively modulated in endothelial cells with aging. In young human umbilical vein endothelial cells, this miR is involved in a premature senescence-like phenotype through direct targeting of the NOX4 protein, implicated in cell senescence and aging. CONCLUSIONS AND GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE: Finding important factors that regulate endothelial cell senescence, like miR-146a, will help provide novel therapeutic strategies for vascular disorders.	Cell Aging/ genetics;Cells, Cultured;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;Gene Expression Regulation, Enzymologic;Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells/ metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;NADPH Oxidase/genetics/metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Phenotype;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Transfection
Rodent heart failure models do not reflect the human circulating microRNA signature in heart failure	E. L. Vegter, et al.	2017	28475616	INTRODUCTION: We recently identified a set of plasma microRNAs (miRNAs) that are downregulated in patients with heart failure in comparison with control subjects. To better understand their meaning and function, we sought to validate these circulating miRNAs in 3 different well-established rat and mouse heart failure models, and correlated the miRNAs to parameters of cardiac function. METHODS: The previously identified let-7i-5p, miR-16-5p, miR-18a-5p, miR-26b-5p, miR-27a-3p, miR-30e-5p, miR-199a-3p, miR-223-3p, miR-423-3p, miR-423-5p and miR-652-3p were measured by means of quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) in plasma samples of 8 homozygous TGR(mREN2)27 (Ren2) transgenic rats and 8 (control) Sprague-Dawley rats, 6 mice with angiotensin II-induced heart failure (AngII) and 6 control mice, and 8 mice with ischemic heart failure and 6 controls. Circulating miRNA levels were compared between the heart failure animals and healthy controls. RESULTS: Ren2 rats, AngII mice and mice with ischemic heart failure showed clear signs of heart failure, exemplified by increased left ventricular and lung weights, elevated end-diastolic left ventricular pressures, increased expression of cardiac stress markers and reduced left ventricular ejection fraction. All miRNAs were detectable in plasma from rats and mice. No significant differences were observed between the circulating miRNAs in heart failure animals when compared to the healthy controls (all P>0.05) and no robust associations with cardiac function could be found. CONCLUSIONS: The previous observation that miRNAs circulate in lower levels in human patients with heart failure could not be validated in well-established rat and mouse heart failure models. These results question the translation of data on human circulating miRNA levels to experimental models, and vice versa the validity of experimental miRNA data for human heart failure.	
Low circulating microRNA levels in heart failure patients are associated with atherosclerotic disease and cardiovascular-related rehospitalizations	E. L. Vegter, et al.	2017	28293796	OBJECTIVE: Circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) have been implicated in both heart failure and atherosclerotic disease. The aim of this study was to examine associations between heart failure specific circulating miRNAs, atherosclerotic disease and cardiovascular-related outcome in patients with heart failure. METHODS: The levels of 11 heart failure-specific circulating miRNAs were compared in plasma of 114 heart failure patients with and without different manifestations of atherosclerotic disease. We then studied these miRNAs in relation to biomarkers associated to atherosclerosis and to cardiovascular-related rehospitalizations during 18 months of follow-up. RESULTS: At least one manifestation of atherosclerotic disease was found in 70 (61%) of the heart failure patients. A consistent trend was found between an increasing number of manifestations of atherosclerosis (peripheral arterial disease in specific), and lower levels of miR-18a-5p, miR-27a-3p, miR-199a-3p, miR-223-3p and miR-652-3p (all P < 0.05). Target prediction and network analyses identified several interactions between miRNA targets and biomarkers related to inflammation, angiogenesis and endothelial dysfunction. Lower miRNA levels were associated with higher levels of these atherosclerosis-related biomarkers. In addition, lower miRNA levels were significantly associated with rehospitalizations due to cardiovascular causes within 18 months, with let-7i-5p as strongest predictor [HR 2.06 (95% CI 1.29-3.28), C-index 0.70, P = 0.002]. CONCLUSIONS: A consistent pattern of lower levels of circulating miRNAs was found in heart failure patients with atherosclerotic disease, in particular peripheral arterial disease. In addition, lower levels of miRNAs were associated with higher levels of biomarkers involved in atherosclerosis and an increased risk of a cardiovascular-related rehospitalization.	Atherosclerosis;Biomarkers;Circulating microRNAs;Heart failure;Rehospitalization
Use of biomarkers to establish potential role and function of circulating microRNAs in acute heart failure	E. L. Vegter, et al.	2016	27661412	BACKGROUND: Circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) emerge as potential heart failure biomarkers. We aimed to identify associations between acute heart failure (AHF)-specific circulating miRNAs and well-known heart failure biomarkers. METHODS: Associations between 16 biomarkers predictive for 180day mortality and the levels of 12 AHF-specific miRNAs were determined in 100 hospitalized AHF patients, at baseline and 48hours. Patients were divided in 4 pre-defined groups, based on clinical parameters during hospitalization. Correlation analyses between miRNAs and biomarkers were performed and complemented by miRNA target prediction and pathway analysis. RESULTS: No significant correlations were found at hospital admission. However, after 48hours, 7 miRNAs were significantly negatively correlated to biomarkers indicative for a worse clinical outcome in the patient group with the most unfavorable in-hospital course (n=21); miR-16-5p was correlated to C-reactive protein (R=-0.66, p-value=0.0027), miR-106a-5p to creatinine (R=-0.68, p-value=0.002), miR-223-3p to growth differentiation factor 15 (R=-0.69, p-value=0.0015), miR-652-3p to soluble ST-2 (R=-0.77, p-value<0.001), miR-199a-3p to procalcitonin (R=-0.72, p-value<0.001) and galectin-3 (R=-0.73, p-value<0.001) and miR-18a-5p to procalcitonin (R=-0.68, p-value=0.002). MiRNA target prediction and pathway analysis identified several pathways related to cardiac diseases, which could be linked to some of the miRNA-biomarker correlations. CONCLUSIONS: The majority of correlations between circulating AHF-specific miRNAs were related to biomarkers predictive for a worse clinical outcome in a subgroup of worsening heart failure patients at 48hours of hospitalization. The selective findings suggest a time-dependent effect of circulating miRNAs and highlight the susceptibility to individual patient characteristics influencing potential relations between miRNAs and biomarkers.	Acute heart failure;Biomarkers;Circulating microRNAs;Correlation analysis;Pathways
Transcriptome analyses identify key cellular factors associated with HIV-1-associated neuropathogenesis in infected men	N. J. Venkatachari, et al.	2017	28005686	OBJECTIVE: HIV-1 viral proteins and host inflammatory factors have a direct role in neuronal toxicity in vitro; however, the contribution of these factors in vivo in HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND) is not fully understood. We applied novel Systems Biology approaches to identify specific cellular and viral factors and their related pathways that are associated with different stages of HAND. DESIGN: A cross-sectional study of individuals enrolled in the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study including HIV-1-seronegative (N = 36) and HIV-1-seropositive individuals without neurocognitive symptoms (N = 16) or with mild neurocognitive disorder (MND) (N = 8) or HIV-associated dementia (HAD) (N = 16). METHODS: A systematic evaluation of global transcriptome of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) obtained from HIV-1-seronegative individuals and from HIV-1-positive men without neurocognitive symptoms, or MND or HAD was performed. RESULTS: MND and HAD were associated with specific changes in mRNA transcripts and microRNAs in PBMCs. Comparison of upstream regulators and TimePath analyses identified specific cellular factors associated with MND and HAD, whereas HIV-1 viral proteins played a greater role in HAD. In addition, expression of specific microRNAs - miR-let-7a, miR-124, miR-15a and others - were found to correlate with mRNA gene expression and may have a potential protective role in asymptomatic HIV-1-seropositive individuals by regulating cellular signal transduction pathways downstream of chemokines and cytokines. CONCLUSION: These results identify signature transcriptome changes in PBMCs associated with stages of HAND and shed light on the potential contribution of host cellular factors and viral proteins in HAND development.	
MicroRNA 128a increases intracellular ROS level by targeting Bmi-1 and inhibits medulloblastoma cancer cell growth by promoting senescence	S. Venkataraman, et al.	2010	20574517	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of short non-coding RNAs that regulate cell homeostasis by inhibiting translation or degrading mRNA of target genes, and thereby can act as tumor suppressor genes or oncogenes. The role of microRNAs in medulloblastoma has only recently been addressed. We hypothesized that microRNAs differentially expressed during normal CNS development might be abnormally regulated in medulloblastoma and are functionally important for medulloblastoma cell growth. METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We examined the expression of microRNAs in medulloblastoma and then investigated the functional role of one specific one, miR-128a, in regulating medulloblastoma cell growth. We found that many microRNAs associated with normal neuronal differentiation are significantly down regulated in medulloblastoma. One of these, miR-128a, inhibits growth of medulloblastoma cells by targeting the Bmi-1 oncogene. In addition, miR-128a alters the intracellular redox state of the tumor cells and promotes cellular senescence. CONCLUSIONS AND SIGNIFICANCE: Here we report the novel regulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by microRNA 128a via the specific inhibition of the Bmi-1 oncogene. We demonstrate that miR-128a has growth suppressive activity in medulloblastoma and that this activity is partially mediated by targeting Bmi-1. This data has implications for the modulation of redox states in cancer stem cells, which are thought to be resistant to therapy due to their low ROS states.	Base Sequence;Brain/metabolism/pathology;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Down-Regulation/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/genetics;Humans;Intracellular Space/genetics/ metabolism;Medulloblastoma/ genetics/metabolism/ pathology;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Nuclear Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Polycomb Repressive Complex 1;Proto-Oncogene Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Reactive Oxygen Species/ metabolism;Repressor Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction/genetics;Superoxides/metabolism
MicroRNA (miRNA)-mediated interaction between leukemia/lymphoma-related factor (LRF) and alternative splicing factor/splicing factor 2 (ASF/SF2) affects mouse embryonic fibroblast senescence and apoptosis	L. Verduci, et al.	2010	20923760	Leukemia/lymphoma-related factor (LRF) is a transcriptional repressor, which by recruiting histone deacetylases specifically represses p19/ARF expression, thus behaving as an oncogene. Conversely, in mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEF), LRF inhibition causes aberrant p19ARF up-regulation resulting in proliferative defects and premature senescence. We have recently shown that LRF is controlled by microRNAs. Here we show that LRF acts on MEF proliferation and senescence/apoptosis by repressing miR-28 and miR-505, revealing a regulatory circuit where microRNAs (miRNAs) work both upstream and downstream of LRF. By analyzing miRNA expression profiles of MEF transfected with LRF-specific short interfering RNAs, we found that miR-28 and miR-505 are modulated by LRF. Both miRNAs are predicted to target alternative splicing factor/splicing factor 2 (ASF/SF2), a serine/arginine protein essential for cell viability. In vertebrates, loss or inactivation of ASF/SF2 may result in genomic instability and induce G(2) cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. We showed that miR-28 and miR-505 modulate ASF/SF2 by directly binding ASF/SF2 3'-UTR. Decrease in LRF causes a decrease in ASF/SF2, which depends on up-regulation of miR-28 and miR-505. Alteration of each of the members of the LRF/miR-28/miR-505/ASF/SF2 axis affects MEF proliferation and the number of senescent and apoptotic cells. Consistently, the axis is coordinately modulated as cell senescence increases with passages in MEF culture. In conclusion, we show that LRF-dependent miRNAs miR-28 and miR-505 control MEF proliferation and survival by targeting ASF/SF2 and suggest a central role of LRF-related miRNAs, in addition to the role of LRF-dependent p53 control, in cellular homeostasis.	3' Untranslated Regions;Alternative Splicing;Animals;Apoptosis;Cell Aging;DNA-Binding Proteins/ metabolism;Fibroblasts/ cytology;Gene Expression Regulation;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Nuclear Proteins/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;RNA-Binding Proteins/ metabolism;Serine-Arginine Splicing Factors;Transcription Factors/ metabolism
Detection of microRNAs in microglia by real-time PCR in normal CNS and during neuroinflammation	T. Veremeyko, et al.	2012	22872097	Microglia are cells of the myeloid lineage that reside in the central nervous system (CNS)(1). These cells play an important role in pathologies of many diseases associated with neuroinflammation such as multiple sclerosis (MS)(2). Microglia in a normal CNS express macrophage marker CD11b and exhibit a resting phenotype by expressing low levels of activation markers such as CD45. During pathological events in the CNS, microglia become activated as determined by upregulation of CD45 and other markers(3). The factors that affect microglia phenotype and functions in the CNS are not well studied. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a growing family of conserved molecules (~22 nucleotides long) that are involved in many normal physiological processes such as cell growth and differentiation(4) and pathologies such as inflammation(5). MiRNAs downregulate the expression of certain target genes by binding complementary sequences of their mRNAs and play an important role in the activation of innate immune cells including macrophages(6) and microglia(7). In order to investigate miRNA-mediated pathways that define the microglial phenotype, biological function, and to distinguish microglia from other types of macrophages, it is important to quantitatively assess the expression of particular microRNAs in distinct subsets of CNS-resident microglia. Common methods for measuring the expression of miRNAs in the CNS include quantitative PCR from whole neuronal tissue and in situ hybridization. However, quantitative PCR from whole tissue homogenate does not allow the assessment of the expression of miRNA in microglia, which represent only 5-15% of the cells of neuronal tissue. Hybridization in situ allows the assessment of the expression of microRNA in specific cell types in the tissue sections, but this method is not entirely quantitative. In this report we describe a quantitative and sensitive method for the detection of miRNA by real-time PCR in microglia isolated from normal CNS or during neuroinflammation using experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), a mouse model for MS. The described method will be useful to measure the level of expression of microRNAs in microglia in normal CNS or during neuroinflammation associated with various pathologies including MS, stroke, traumatic injury, Alzheimer's disease and brain tumors.	Animals;Central Nervous System/ chemistry/metabolism/pathology;Encephalomyelitis, Autoimmune, Experimental/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;In Situ Hybridization/methods;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ analysis/biosynthesis/genetics;Microglia/ chemistry/metabolism/pathology/physiology;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction/ methods
A neuroprotective role for microRNA miR-1000 mediated by limiting glutamate excitotoxicity	P. Verma, et al.	2015	25643297	Evidence has begun to emerge for microRNAs as regulators of synaptic signaling, specifically acting to control postsynaptic responsiveness during synaptic transmission. In this report, we provide evidence that Drosophila melanogaster miR-1000 acts presynaptically to regulate glutamate release at the synapse by controlling expression of the vesicular glutamate transporter (VGlut). Genetic deletion of miR-1000 led to elevated apoptosis in the brain as a result of glutamatergic excitotoxicity. The seed-similar miR-137 regulated VGluT2 expression in mouse neurons. These conserved miRNAs share a neuroprotective function in the brains of flies and mice. Drosophila miR-1000 showed activity-dependent expression, which might serve as a mechanism to allow neuronal activity to fine-tune the strength of excitatory synaptic transmission.	Age Factors;Aging/genetics;Animals;Animals, Genetically Modified;Cells, Cultured;Drosophila;Drosophila Proteins/genetics;Embryo, Mammalian;Embryo, Nonmammalian;Female;Gene Deletion;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/ genetics;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neurodegenerative Diseases/genetics/ prevention & control;Synaptic Transmission/drug effects/genetics;Vesicular Glutamate Transport Protein 2/genetics/metabolism
Circulating microRNA signature of genotype-by-age interactions in the long-lived Ames dwarf mouse	B. Victoria, et al.	2015	26176567	Recent evidence demonstrates that serum levels of specific miRNAs significantly change with age. The ability of circulating sncRNAs to act as signaling molecules and regulate a broad spectrum of cellular functions implicates them as key players in the aging process. To discover circulating sncRNAs that impact aging in the long-lived Ames dwarf mice, we conducted deep sequencing of small RNAs extracted from serum of young and old mice. Our analysis showed genotype-specific changes in the circulating levels of 21 miRNAs during aging [genotype-by-age interaction (GbA)]. Genotype-by-age miRNAs showed four distinct expression patterns and significant overtargeting of transcripts involved in age-related processes. Functional enrichment analysis of putative and validated miRNA targets highlighted cellular processes such as tumor suppression, anti-inflammatory response, and modulation of Wnt, insulin, mTOR, and MAPK signaling pathways, among others. The comparative analysis of circulating GbA miRNAs in Ames mice with circulating miRNAs modulated by calorie restriction (CR) in another long-lived mouse suggests CR-like and CR-independent mechanisms contributing to longevity in the Ames mouse. In conclusion, we showed for the first time a signature of circulating miRNAs modulated by age in the long-lived Ames mouse.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Base Sequence;Caloric Restriction;Dwarfism, Pituitary/ genetics;Female;Genotype;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Insulin/metabolism;Longevity/ genetics;MAP Kinase Signaling System/genetics;Male;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ blood/genetics;Sequence Analysis, DNA;TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases/metabolism;Wnt Proteins/metabolism;aging;circulating miRNAs;dwarf mouse;sequencing;sncRNAs;tRNA halves
MicroRNAs and the metabolic hallmarks of aging	B. Victoria, et al.	2017	28062199	Aging, the natural process of growing older, is characterized by a progressive deterioration of physiological homeostasis at the cellular, tissue, and organismal level. Metabolically, the aging process is characterized by extensive changes in body composition, multi-tissue/multi-organ insulin resistance, and physiological declines in multiple signaling pathways including growth hormone, insulin/insulin-like growth factor 1, and sex steroids regulation. With this review, we intend to consolidate published information about microRNAs that regulate critical metabolic processes relevant to aging. In certain occasions we uncover relationships likely relevant to aging, which has not been directly described before, such as the miR-451/AMPK axis. We have also included a provocative section highlighting the potential role in aging of a new designation of miRNAs, namely fecal miRNAs, recently discovered to regulate intestinal microbiota in mammals.	Aging;Inflammation;Metabolism;Microbiome;Mitochondria;miRNA
miRNAs: New Biomarkers and Therapeutic Targets in Dementia	A. T. B. Viegas, et al.	2017	28078993	BACKGROUND: Dementia is a complex pathological state that affects millions of individuals worldwide and is responsible for a huge socioeconomic burden, making it a major health concern of current times. Given the impact of dementia in both patients and caregivers, it is crucial to fully clarify the molecular mechanisms underlying dementia-associated disorders, since without this knowledge our ability to correctly diagnose and treat these diseases is severely hampered. METHODS: Epigenetic mechanisms, such as miRNA-mediated post-transcriptional regulation, have been reported to play a role in dementia pathogenesis. Given their ability to bind complementary mRNA sequences, miRNAs are able to induce temporary or permanent translation repression of their mRNA targets. RESULTS: Consequently, changes in miRNA levels may contribute to alterations in the expression of dementiarelated proteins, impacting the course of the disease. Conversely, studies have also reported that some of these proteins are able to regulate the biogenesis and transport of miRNAs, hinting at novel disease-related mechanisms that are now beginning to be explored. These findings have made miRNAs both interesting tools and promising targets in the design of novel therapeutic strategies. Moreover, the discovery of circulating miRNAs, which are released by cells of various tissues, including the brain, and travel in membrane-bound vesicles found in most biofluids, opened new possibilities concerning the usefulness of miRNAs as biomarkers of disease. CONCLUSION: In this context, the major aim of this review is to discuss the relevance of these small non-coding RNAs in dementia, focusing on their role as gene expression regulators, their potential as biomarkers of dementia subtype and stage, and the hypothesis of using miRNA modulation as an innovative therapeutic approach to treat dementia-related disorders.	Dementia;biomarkers;immune system;microRNAs;neurodegeneration;neuroinflammation;therapy
Molecular Links and Biomarkers of Stroke, Vascular Dementia, and Alzheimer's Disease	M. Vijayan, et al.	2017	28253992	Stroke is a very common neurological disease, and it occurs when the blood supply to part of the brain is interrupted and the subsequent shortage of oxygen and nutrients causes damage to the brain tissue. Stroke is the second leading cause of death and the third leading cause of disability-adjusted life years. The occurrence of stroke increases with age, but anyone at any age can suffer a stroke. Stroke can be broadly classified in two major clinical types: ischemic stroke (IS) and hemorrhagic stroke. Research also revealed that stroke, vascular dementia (VaD), and Alzheimer's disease (AD) increase with a number of modifiable factors, and most strokes can be prevented and/or controlled through pharmacological or surgical interventions and lifestyle changes. The pathophysiology of stroke, VaD, and AD is complex, and recent molecular and postmortem brain studies have revealed that multiple cellular changes have been implicated, including inflammatory responses, microRNA alterations, and marked changes in brain proteins. These molecular and cellular changes provide new information for developing therapeutic strategies for stroke and related vascular disorders treatment. IS is the major risk factor for VaD and AD. This chapter summarizes the (1) links among stroke-VaD-AD; (2) updates the latest developments of research in identifying protein biomarkers in peripheral and central nervous system tissues; and (3) critically evaluates miRNA profile and function in human blood samples, animal, and postmortem brains.	Alzheimer's disease;Cdk5;Circulatory microRNA;Inflammatory responses;Protein biomarker;Stroke;Vascular dementia
Stroke, Vascular Dementia, and Alzheimer's Disease: Molecular Links	M. Vijayan and P. H. Reddy	2016	27567871	Stroke is a brain disease that occurs when blood flow stops, resulting in reduced oxygen supply to neurons. Stroke occurs at any time and at any age, but increases after the age of 55. It is the second leading cause of death and the third leading cause of disability-adjusted, life-years. The pathophysiology of ischemic stroke is complex and recent molecular, cellular, and animal models and postmortem brain studies have revealed that multiple cellular changes have been implicated, including oxidative stress/mitochondrial dysfunction, inflammatory responses, micro RNA alterations, and marked changes in brain proteins. These cellular changes provide new information for developing therapeutic strategies for ischemic stroke treatment. Research also revealed that stroke increases with a number of modifiable factors and most strokes can be prevented and/or controlled through pharmacological or surgical interventions and lifestyle changes. Ischemic stroke is the major risk factor for vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease. This review summarizes the latest research findings on stroke, including causal factors and molecular links between stroke and vascular disease/Alzheimer's disease.	Alzheimer's disease;hemorrhage;inflammatory responses;ischemic stroke;magnetic resonance imaging;vascular dementia
MicroRNA-101 regulates amyloid precursor protein expression in hippocampal neurons	E. Vilardo, et al.	2010	20395292	The amyloid precursor protein (APP) and its proteolytic product amyloid beta (Abeta) are associated with both familial and sporadic forms of Alzheimer disease (AD). Aberrant expression and function of microRNAs has been observed in AD. Here, we show that in rat hippocampal neurons cultured in vitro, the down-regulation of Argonaute-2, a key component of the RNA-induced silencing complex, produced an increase in APP levels. Using site-directed mutagenesis, a microRNA responsive element (RE) for miR-101 was identified in the 3'-untranslated region (UTR) of APP. The inhibition of endogenous miR-101 increased APP levels, whereas lentiviral-mediated miR-101 overexpression significantly reduced APP and Abeta load in hippocampal neurons. In addition, miR-101 contributed to the regulation of APP in response to the proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1beta (IL-lbeta). Thus, miR-101 is a negative regulator of APP expression and affects the accumulation of Abeta, suggesting a possible role for miR-101 in neuropathological conditions.	Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/ chemistry;Animals;Argonaute Proteins;Base Sequence;Brain/embryology;Eukaryotic Initiation Factor-2/metabolism;Hippocampus/embryology/ metabolism;Interleukin-1beta/metabolism;Membrane Proteins/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Neurons/ metabolism;Rats;Rats, Wistar;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid
Role of hnRNP-A1 and miR-590-3p in neuronal death: genetics and expression analysis in patients with Alzheimer disease and frontotemporal lobar degeneration	C. Villa, et al.	2011	21548758	An association study of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein (hnRNP)-A1 was carried out in a population of 274 patients with frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) and 287 with Alzheimer disease (AD) as compared with 344 age- and gender-matched controls. In addition, we evaluated expression levels of hnRNP-A1 and its regulatory microRNA (miR)-590-3p in blood cells from patients and controls. A statistically significant increased frequency of the hnRNP-A1 rs7967622 C/C genotype was observed in FTLD, but not in AD, in patients as compared to controls (23.0 versus 15.4%; p = 0.022, odds ratio [OR] 1.64, confidence interval [CI] 1.09-2.46). Stratifying according to gender, a statistically significant increased frequency of the hnRNP-A1 rs7967622 C/C genotype was observed in male patients as compared to male controls (23.1 versus 11.3%; p = 0.015, OR 2.36, CI 1.22-4.58 but not in females. Considering the rs4016671 single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), all patients and controls were wild type. Significantly increased hnRNP-A1 relative expression levels in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) was observed in patients with AD, but not with FTLD, as compared to controls (2.724 +/- 0.570 versus 1.076 +/- 0.187, p = 0.021). Decreased relative expression levels of hsa-miR-590-3p was observed in patients with AD versus controls (0.685 +/- 0.080 versus 0.931 +/- 0.111, p = 0.079), and correlated negatively with hnRNP-A1 mRNA levels (r = -0.615, p = 0.0237). According to these findings, hnRNP-A1 and its transcription regulatory factor miR-590-3p are disregulated in patients with AD, and the hnRNP-A1 rs7967622 C/C genotype is likely a risk factor for FTLD in male populations.	Aged;Alleles;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/pathology;Base Sequence;Case-Control Studies;Cell Death;Female;Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration/ genetics/pathology;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Frequency/genetics;Heterogeneous-Nuclear Ribonucleoprotein Group A-B/blood/ genetics;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/blood/ genetics;Molecular Sequence Data;Neurons/ metabolism/ pathology;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide/genetics;Sequence Alignment
Expression of the transcription factor Sp1 and its regulatory hsa-miR-29b in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from patients with Alzheimer's disease	C. Villa, et al.	2013	23435408	Altered gene expression occurs in central nervous system disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Transcription factor Sp1 (specificity protein 1) can regulate the expression of several AD-related proteins, including amyloid-beta protein precursor and tau. Sp1 is regulated by oxidative stress, and Sp1 mRNA was found to be upregulated in AD cortex and hippocampus. The distribution of three single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), including rs7300593, rs17695156, and rs12821290, covering 100% Sp1 genetic variability, has been determined in a population of 393 AD patients as compared with 412 controls. In addition, expression analysis of Sp1 and its regulatory microRNAs (hsa-miR-29b and hsa-miR-375) has been performed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs), together with Sp1 protein analysis. No differences in all three SNP distributions were observed in AD patients as compared with controls. Stratifying according to gender, a significantly decreased frequency of Sp1 rs17695156 T allele was observed in male patients versus male controls. Significantly increased Sp1 relative expression levels were observed in PBMCs from AD patients as compared with controls. Western blot analysis paralleled mRNA increase in AD patients versus controls and correlated positively with Sp1 mRNA levels. Significantly decreased relative expression levels of hsa-miR-29b, but not of hsa-miR-375, were observed in AD patients versus controls and correlated negatively with Sp1 mRNA levels. According to these results, Sp1 and its regulatory hsa-miR-29b are deregulated in AD patients, possibly leading to aberrant production of downstream target genes involved in the pathogenesis. Moreover, Sp1 rs176951056 T allele is likely a protective factor in the male population.	Aged;Alleles;Alzheimer Disease/ diagnosis;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/ genetics;Genotype;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Monocytes/metabolism;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide/genetics;Reference Values;Sex Factors;Sp1 Transcription Factor/ blood/ genetics
Diagnostic Value of Cell-free Circulating MicroRNAs for Obesity and Type 2 Diabetes: A Meta-analysis	A. Villard, et al.	2015	27308097	Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is the most common metabolic disorder worldwide. Because of population aging and increasing trends toward obesity and sedentary lifestyles, the number of affected individuals is increasing at worrisome rates. While both environmental and genetic factors are known to contribute to the development of T2DM, continuous research is needed to identify specific biomarkers that could aid both in prevention of the disease and development of newer therapeutic options. Circulating miRNAs are considered as potential biomarkers because they are stable and resistant to degradation by blood RNAses and are modified under different pathophysiological conditions. In this study we carried out a systematic electronic search on PubMed to retrieve all articles that have investigated circulating miRNAs for diagnosing obesity andT2DM in human. We also included lifestyle intervention studies known to be highly effective in delaying onset of diabetes, and studies analyzing the effect of bariatric surgery and anti-diabetic treatment. A total of 26 studies were enrolled in the global meta-analysis. Candidate miRNAs were defined as those reported in at least 2 studies with same direction of differential expression. Ten miRNAs altered in blood of patients suffering fromT2DM were identified (increased: miR-320a, miR-142-3p, miR-222, miR-29a, miR-27a, miR-375; decreased: miR-197, miR-20b, miR-17, miR-652) and 7 miRNAs in blood of obese subjects were identified (increased: miR-142-3p, miR-140-5p, miR-222; decreased:miR-21-5p, miR-221-3p, miR-125-5p, mir-103-5p). Both obese and T2DM patients had elevated concentrations of miR-142-3p and miR-222. MiRNAs target genes were predicted and their cellular functions are discussed in relation with the pathologies. Although a significant number of studies were taken into account in this review, we found a strong discrepancy between miRNA detection and quantification indicating that many of pre-analytical variables have yet to be normalized. Pre-analytical and analytical challenges are also discussed.	Circulating miRNAs;Meta-analysis;Obesity;Type 2 diabetes
Differential DNA Methylation of MicroRNA Genes in Temporal Cortex from Alzheimer's Disease Individuals	D. Villela, et al.	2016	27213057	This study investigated for the first time the genomewide DNA methylation changes of noncoding RNA genes in the temporal cortex samples from individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The methylome of 10 AD individuals and 10 age-matched controls were obtained using Illumina 450 K methylation array. A total of 2,095 among the 15,258 interrogated noncoding RNA CpG sites presented differential methylation, 161 of which were associated with miRNA genes. In particular, 10 miRNA CpG sites that were found to be hypermethylated in AD compared to control brains represent transcripts that have been previously associated with the disease. This miRNA set is predicted to target 33 coding genes from the neuregulin receptor complex (ErbB) signaling pathway, which is required for the neurons myelination process. For 6 of these miRNA genes (MIR9-1, MIR9-3, MIR181C, MIR124-1, MIR146B, and MIR451), the hypermethylation pattern is in agreement with previous results from literature that shows downregulation of miR-9, miR-181c, miR-124, miR-146b, and miR-451 in the AD brain. Our data implicate dysregulation of miRNA methylation as contributor to the pathogenesis of AD.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;DNA Methylation;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Temporal Lobe/ metabolism/pathology
Viability, longevity, and egg production of Drosophila melanogaster are regulated by the miR-282 microRNA	P. Vilmos, et al.	2013	23852386	The first microRNAs were discovered some 20 years ago, but only a small fraction of the microRNA-encoding genes have been described in detail yet. Here we report the molecular analysis of a computationally predicted Drosophila melanogaster microRNA gene, mir-282. We show that the mir-282 gene is the source of a 4.9-kb-long primary transcript with a 5' cap and a 3'-poly(A) sequence and a mature microRNA of approximately 25 bp. Our data strongly suggest the existence of an independent mir-282 gene conserved in holometabolic insects. We give evidence that the mir-282 locus encodes a functional transcript that influences viability, longevity, and egg production in Drosophila. We identify the nervous system-specific adenylate cyclase (rutabaga) as a target of miR-282 and assume that one of the main functions of mir-282 is the regulation of adenylate cyclase activity in the nervous system during metamorphosis.	Adenylyl Cyclases/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Cell Survival;Drosophila melanogaster/ genetics/growth & development;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Longevity/ genetics;Metamorphosis, Biological/genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Nervous System/growth & development/metabolism;Ovum/growth & development;Drosophila;gene;miR;microRNA (miRNA)
Age-associated changes in miRNA expression profiles in thymopoiesis	E. L. Virts and M. L. Thoman	2010	20934450	During adult life, the thymus involutes and thymic output of mature T cells drastically declines. The molecular events underlying this process are not well understood. Here, we present evidence of the importance of miRNAs in regulating T cell differentiation in the aged. miRNAs are a wide-ranging regulatory element influencing gene expression throughout the lifetime of the organism. To establish whether they play a role in the age-specific thymic decline, the miRNA expression pattern was examined in TN subsets of young and aged mice. Fifty-two percent of the miRNAs exhibited elevated expression levels in the aged TN1 cells. This expression profile leads us to hypothesize that the large number of highly expressed miRNAs, indicative of rigidly controlled protein expression, limits the developmental potential of this population and results in the age-induced decline in thymopoiesis.	Age Factors;Aging/ physiology;Animals;Cell Differentiation;Gene Expression Regulation;Mice;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;T-Lymphocytes/ cytology;Thymus Gland/ cytology
miRNAs as biomarkers of neurodegenerative disorders	V. Viswambharan, et al.	2017	28125293	Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) are the result of progressive deterioration of neurons, ultimately leading to disabilities. There is no effective cure for NDDs at present; ongoing therapies are mainly aimed at treating the most bothersome symptoms. Since early treatment is crucial in NDDs, there is an urgent need for specific and sensitive biomarkers that can aid in early diagnosis of these disorders. Recently, altered expression of miRNAs has been implicated in several neurological disorders, including NDDs. miRNA expression has been extensively investigated in the cells, tissues and body fluids of patients with different types of NDDs. The aim of this review is to provide a comprehensive overview of miRNAs as biomarkers and therapeutic targets for NDDs.	Alzheimer's disease;Friedreich's ataxia;Huntington's disease;Parkinson's disease;amyotrophic lateral sclerosis;miRNA;multiple sclerosis;prion disease;spinal muscular atrophy;spinocerebellar ataxia
Liver microRNA Profile of Induced Allograft Tolerance	M. J. Vitalone, et al.	2016	26950716	BACKGROUND: Although the liver is less immunogenic than other solid organs, most liver transplant recipients receive lifelong immunosuppression. In both experimental models and clinical transplantation, total lymphoid irradiation (TLI) has been shown to induce allograft tolerance. Our goal was to identify the microRNAs (miRNAs) expressed in tolerant liver allograft recipients in an experimental model of TLI-induced tolerance. METHODS: To identify the miRNAs associated with TLI-induced tolerance, we examined syngeneic recipients (Lewis-->Lewis) and allogeneic recipients (Dark Agouti-->Lewis) of orthotropic liver transplants that received posttransplant TLI, allogeneic recipients that were not treated posttransplantation and experienced acute rejection, and native Dark Agouti livers. Quantitative-polymerase chain reaction miRNA array cards were used to profile liver grafts. RESULTS: We identified 12 miRNAs that were specifically and significantly increased during acute rejection. In early tolerance, 33 miRNAs were altered compared with syngeneic livers, with 80% of the miRNAs increased. In established tolerance, 42 miRNAs were altered. In addition, miR-142-5p and miR-181a demonstrated increased expression in tolerant livers (both early and established tolerance) as compared with syngeneic livers. A principal component analysis of all miRNAs assayed demonstrated a profile in established tolerance that was closely related to that seen in syngeneic livers. CONCLUSIONS: The miRNA profile of established tolerant allografts is very similar to syngeneic grafts, suggesting tolerance may be a return to an immunological state of quiescence.	Allografts;Animals;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;Gene Expression Regulation;Graft Rejection/genetics/immunology/ metabolism;Graft Survival/genetics;Immunosenescence;Isografts;Liver/immunology/metabolism/ surgery;Liver Transplantation/adverse effects;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/immunology/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Polymerase Chain Reaction;Principal Component Analysis;Rats, Inbred Lew;Time Factors;Transplantation Tolerance/genetics;Transplantation, Isogeneic
Frequent concomitant inactivation of miR-34a and miR-34b/c by CpG methylation in colorectal, pancreatic, mammary, ovarian, urothelial, and renal cell carcinomas and soft tissue sarcomas	M. Vogt, et al.	2011	21225432	The microRNA encoding genes miR-34a and miR-34b/c represent direct p53 target genes and possess tumor suppressive properties as they mediate apoptosis, cell cycle arrest, and senescence. We previously reported that the miR-34a gene is subject to epigenetic inactivation by CpG methylation of its promoter region in primary prostate cancer and melanomas, and in 110 different cancer cell lines of diverse origin. Here we analyzed the methylation status of miR-34a and miR-34b/c in additional primary tumors of divergent sites. We found methylation of miR-34a or miR-34b/c in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor samples from 178 patients with the following frequencies: colorectal cancer (74% miR-34a, 99% miR-34b/c; n = 114), pancreatic cancer (64%, 100%; n = 11), mammary cancer (60%, 90%; n = 10), ovarian cancer (62%, 69%; n = 13), urothelial cancer (71%, 57%; n = 7), and renal cell cancer (58%, 100%; n = 12). Furthermore, soft tissue sarcomas showed methylation of miR-34 gene promoters in FFPE samples (64%, 45%; n = 11), in explanted, cultured cells (53%, 40%; n = 40), and in frozen tissue samples (75%, 75%, n = 8). In the colorectal cancer samples a statistically significant correlation of miR-34a methylation and the absence of p53 mutation was detected. With the exception of sarcoma cell lines, the inactivation of miR-34a and miR-34b/c was concomitant in most cases. These results show that miR-34 inactivation is a common event in tumor formation, and suggest that CpG methylation of miR-34a and miR-34-b/c may have diagnostic value. The mutual exclusiveness of miR-34a methylation and p53 mutation indicates that miR-34a inactivation may substitute for loss of p53 function in cancer.	Breast Neoplasms/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Colorectal Neoplasms/genetics;CpG Islands/ genetics;DNA Methylation;DNA, Neoplasm/genetics;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Gene Silencing;Genome;Humans;Immunoenzyme Techniques;Kidney Neoplasms/genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Ovarian Neoplasms/genetics;Pancreatic Neoplasms/genetics;Sarcoma/ genetics/pathology;Soft Tissue Neoplasms/ genetics/pathology;Urologic Neoplasms/genetics
Deletion of microRNA-80 activates dietary restriction to extend C. elegans healthspan and lifespan	M. Vora, et al.	2013	24009527	Caloric/dietary restriction (CR/DR) can promote longevity and protect against age-associated disease across species. The molecular mechanisms coordinating food intake with health-promoting metabolism are thus of significant medical interest. We report that conserved Caenorhabditis elegans microRNA-80 (mir-80) is a major regulator of the DR state. mir-80 deletion confers system-wide healthy aging, including maintained cardiac-like and skeletal muscle-like function at advanced age, reduced accumulation of lipofuscin, and extended lifespan, coincident with induction of physiological features of DR. mir-80 expression is generally high under ad lib feeding and low under food limitation, with most striking food-sensitive expression changes in posterior intestine. The acetyltransferase transcription co-factor cbp-1 and interacting transcription factors daf-16/FOXO and heat shock factor-1 hsf-1 are essential for mir-80(Delta) benefits. Candidate miR-80 target sequences within the cbp-1 transcript may confer food-dependent regulation. Under food limitation, lowered miR-80 levels directly or indirectly increase CBP-1 protein levels to engage metabolic loops that promote DR.	Animals;Caenorhabditis elegans/ genetics/physiology;Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Caloric Restriction;Forkhead Transcription Factors;Gene Expression Regulation;Histone Acetyltransferases/genetics/metabolism;Longevity/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Sequence Deletion;Signal Transduction;Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism
Reply to Shin and Bayry on "An age-related decline of CD62L and vaccine response: a role of microRNA 92a?"	T. Vorup-Jensen, et al.	2014	24518554	Aging of the human body affects the immune system by a decline in the ability to raise a response to challenges such as microbial infections or vaccinations. In the very elderly, the decline in such functions appears to relate to a reduced expression of certain co-stimulatory molecules expressed by T lymphocytes. More recently, attention has been drawn to the adhesion molecule CD62L, where differences in expression and function of this molecule between younger and older individuals are suspected to be a part of immunosenescence in the elderly.	Aging/ immunology;CD4-Positive T-Lymphocytes/ immunology;CD8-Positive T-Lymphocytes/ immunology;Female;Hepatitis B Antibodies/ blood;Hepatitis B Surface Antigens/ immunology;Humans;L-Selectin/ physiology;Male;Cd62l;Hbv;adhesion molecule;age;glycosylation
MicroRNA-663 induction upon oxidative stress in cultured human fibroblasts depends on the chronological age of the donor	M. E. Waaijer, et al.	2014	24664125	MicroRNAs, regulators of messenger RNA translation, have been observed to influence many physiological processes, amongst them the process of aging. Higher levels of microRNA-663 (miR-663) have previously been observed in human dermal fibroblasts subject to both replicative and stress-induced senescence compared to early passage cells. Also, higher levels of miR-663 have been found in memory T-cells and in human fibroblasts derived from older donors compared to younger donors. In previous studies we observed that dermal fibroblasts from donors of different chronological and biological age respond differentially to oxidative stress measured by markers of cellular senescence and apoptosis. In the present study we set out to study the association between miR-663 levels and chronological and biological age. Therefore we tested in a total of 92 human dermal fibroblast strains whether the levels of miR-663 in non-stressed and stressed conditions (fibroblasts were treated with 0.6 muM rotenone in stressed conditions) were different in young, middle aged and old donors and whether they were different in middle aged donors dependent on their biological age, as indicated by the propensity for familial longevity. In non-stressed conditions the level of miR-663 did not differ between donors of different age categories and was not dependent on biological age. Levels of miR-663 did not differ dependent on biological age in stressed conditions either. However, for different age categories the level of miR-663 in stressed conditions did differ: the level of miR-663 was higher at higher age categories. Also, the ratio of miR-663 induction upon stress was significantly higher in donors from older age categories. In conclusion, we present evidence for an association of miR-663 upon stress and chronological age.	Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ genetics/metabolism;Apoptosis/genetics/physiology;Cell Aging/genetics/physiology;Cells, Cultured;Dermis/cytology;Female;Fibroblasts/cytology/ metabolism;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Oxidative Stress/ genetics;Young Adult
Comparison of non-coding RNAs in human and canine cancer	S. Wagner, et al.	2013	23579348	The discovery of the post-transcriptional gene silencing (PTGS) by small non-protein-coding RNAs is considered as a major breakthrough in biology. In the last decade we just started to realize the biologic function and complexity of gene regulation by small non-coding RNAs. PTGS is a conserved phenomenon which was observed in various species such as fungi, worms, plants, and mammals. Micro RNAs (miRNA) and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) are two gene silencing mediators constituting an evolutionary conserved class of non-coding RNAs regulating many biological processes in eukaryotes. As this small RNAs appear to regulate gene expression at translational and transcriptional level it is not surprising that during the last decade many human diseases among them Alzheimer's disease, cardiovascular diseases, and various cancer types were associated with deregulated miRNA expression. Consequently small RNAs are considered to hold big promises as therapeutic agents. However, despite of the enormous therapeutic potential many questions remain unanswered. A major critical point, when evaluating novel therapeutic approaches, is the transfer of in vitro settings to an in vivo model. Classical animal models rely on the laboratory kept animals under artificial conditions and often missing an intact immune system. Model organisms with spontaneously occurring tumors as e.g., dogs provide the possibility to evaluate therapeutic agents under the surveillance of an in intact immune system and thereby providing an authentic tumor reacting scenario. Considering the genomic similarity between canines and humans and the advantages of the dog as cancer model system for human neoplasias the analyses of the complex role of small RNAs in canine tumor development could be of major value for both species. Herein we discuss comparatively the role of miRNAs in human and canine cancer development and highlight the potential and advantages of the model organism dog for tumor research.	Ptgs;RNAi;cancer research;dog;miRNA;model organism;siRNA
Replicative senescence of mesenchymal stem cells: a continuous and organized process	W. Wagner, et al.	2008	18493317	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) comprise a promising tool for cellular therapy. These cells are usually culture expanded prior to their application. However, a precise molecular definition of MSC and the sequel of long-term in vitro culture are yet unknown. In this study, we have addressed the impact of replicative senescence on human MSC preparations. Within 43 to 77 days of cultivation (7 to 12 passages), MSC demonstrated morphological abnormalities, enlargement, attenuated expression of specific surface markers, and ultimately proliferation arrest. Adipogenic differentiation potential decreased whereas the propensity for osteogenic differentiation increased. mRNA expression profiling revealed a consistent pattern of alterations in the global gene expression signature of MSC at different passages. These changes are not restricted to later passages, but are continuously acquired with increasing passages. Genes involved in cell cycle, DNA replication and DNA repair are significantly down-regulated in late passages. Genes from chromosome 4q21 were over-represented among differentially regulated transcripts. Differential expression of 10 genes has been verified in independent donor samples as well as in MSC that were isolated under different culture conditions. Furthermore, miRNA expression profiling revealed an up-regulation of hsa-mir-371, hsa-mir-369-5P, hsa-mir-29c, hsa-mir-499 and hsa-let-7f upon in vitro propagation. Our studies indicate that replicative senescence of MSC preparations is a continuous process starting from the first passage onwards. This process includes far reaching alterations in phenotype, differentiation potential, global gene expression patterns, and miRNA profiles that need to be considered for therapeutic application of MSC preparations.	Adipocytes/chemistry;Cell Aging;Cell Differentiation;Cell Division;DNA Repair/genetics;DNA Replication/genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ cytology/metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics
Genome-wide identification of microRNAs regulating cholesterol and triglyceride homeostasis	A. Wagschal, et al.	2015	26501192	Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) have linked genes to various pathological traits. However, the potential contribution of regulatory noncoding RNAs, such as microRNAs (miRNAs), to a genetic predisposition to pathological conditions has remained unclear. We leveraged GWAS meta-analysis data from >188,000 individuals to identify 69 miRNAs in physical proximity to single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with abnormal levels of circulating lipids. Several of these miRNAs (miR-128-1, miR-148a, miR-130b, and miR-301b) control the expression of key proteins involved in cholesterol-lipoprotein trafficking, such as the low-density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor (LDLR) and the ATP-binding cassette A1 (ABCA1) cholesterol transporter. Consistent with human liver expression data and genetic links to abnormal blood lipid levels, overexpression and antisense targeting of miR-128-1 or miR-148a in high-fat diet-fed C57BL/6J and Apoe-null mice resulted in altered hepatic expression of proteins involved in lipid trafficking and metabolism, and in modulated levels of circulating lipoprotein-cholesterol and triglycerides. Taken together, these findings support the notion that altered expression of miRNAs may contribute to abnormal blood lipid levels, predisposing individuals to human cardiometabolic disorders.	ATP Binding Cassette Transporter 1/ metabolism;Animals;Apolipoproteins E/genetics;Cholesterol/metabolism;Cholesterol, HDL/ metabolism;Cholesterol, LDL/ metabolism;Diet, High-Fat;Dyslipidemias/ genetics;Genome-Wide Association Study;Homeostasis/genetics;Humans;Lipoproteins/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Receptors, LDL/ metabolism;Triglycerides/ metabolism
Proteome-wide analysis reveals an age-associated cellular phenotype of in situ aged human fibroblasts	D. M. Waldera-Lupa, et al.	2014	25411231	We analyzed an ex vivo model of in situ aged human dermal fibroblasts, obtained from 15 adult healthy donors from three different age groups using an unbiased quantitative proteome-wide approach applying label-free mass spectrometry. Thereby, we identified 2409 proteins, including 43 proteins with an age-associated abundance change. Most of the differentially abundant proteins have not been described in the context of fibroblasts' aging before, but the deduced biological processes confirmed known hallmarks of aging and led to a consistent picture of eight biological categories involved in fibroblast aging, namely proteostasis, cell cycle and proliferation, development and differentiation, cell death, cell organization and cytoskeleton, response to stress, cell communication and signal transduction, as well as RNA metabolism and translation. The exhaustive analysis of protein and mRNA data revealed that 77 % of the age-associated proteins were not linked to expression changes of the corresponding transcripts. This is in line with an associated miRNA study and led us to the conclusion that most of the age-associated alterations detected at the proteome level are likely caused post-transcriptionally rather than by differential gene expression. In summary, our findings led to the characterization of novel proteins potentially associated with fibroblast aging and revealed that primary cultures of in situ aged fibroblasts are characterized by moderate age-related proteomic changes comprising the multifactorial process of aging.	Adult;Aged;Aging/ physiology;Cells, Cultured;Female;Fibroblasts/ cytology/ metabolism;Humans;In Vitro Techniques;Mass Spectrometry;MicroRNAs;Middle Aged;Phenotype;Proteomics;Transcriptome;Young Adult
Preliminary investigation of miRNA expression in individuals at high familial risk of bipolar disorder	R. M. Walker, et al.	2015	25708817	Bipolar disorder (BD) is a highly heritable psychiatric disorder characterised by recurrent episodes of mania and depression. Many studies have reported altered gene expression in BD, some of which may be attributable to the dysregulated expression of miRNAs. Studies carried out to date have largely studied medicated patients, so it is possible that observed changes in miRNA expression might be a consequence of clinical illness or of its treatment. We sought to establish whether altered miRNA expression might play a causative role in the development of BD by studying young, unmedicated relatives of individuals with BD, who are at a higher genetic risk of developing BD themselves (high-risk individuals). The expression of 20 miRNAs previously implicated in either BD or schizophrenia was measured by qRT-PCR in whole-blood samples from 34 high-risk and 46 control individuals. Three miRNAs, miR-15b, miR-132 and miR-652 were up-regulated in the high-risk individuals, consistent with previous reports of increased expression of these miRNAs in patients with schizophrenia. Our findings suggest that the altered expression of these miRNAs might represent a mechanism of genetic susceptibility for BD. Moreover, our observation of altered miRNA expression in the blood prior to the onset of illness provides hope that one day blood-based tests may aid in the risk-stratification and treatment of BD.	Adolescent;Adult;Bipolar Disorder/ genetics;Family Health;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/ physiology;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Young Adult;Biomarker;Bipolar disorder;Gaba;Gene expression;PI3K/Akt;miRNA
Serum miRNAs miR-206, 143-3p and 374b-5p as potential biomarkers for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)	R. Waller, et al.	2017	28454844	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal, neurodegenerative condition characterized by loss of motor neurones and progressive muscle wasting. There is no diagnostic test for ALS therefore robust biomarkers would not only be valuable for diagnosis, but also for the classification of disease subtypes, monitoring responses to drugs and tracking disease progression. As regulators of gene expression, microRNAs (miRNAs) are increasingly used for diagnostic and prognostic purposes in various disease states with increasing exploration in neurodegenerative disorders. We hypothesize that circulating blood-based miRNAs will serve as biomarkers and use miRNA profiling to determine miRNA signatures from the serum of sporadic ALS patients compared to healthy controls and patients with diseases that mimic ALS. A number of differentially expressed miRNAs were identified in each set of patient comparisons. Validation in an additional patient cohort showed that miR-206 and miR-143-3p were increased and miR-374b-5p was decreased compared to controls. A continued change in miRNA expression persisted during disease progression indicating the potential use of these particular miRNAs as longitudinal biomarkers in ALS.	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis;Biomarker;MicroRNA;Polymerase chain reaction;Serum
Microrna-217 modulates human skin fibroblast senescence by directly targeting DNA methyltransferase 1	B. Wang, et al.	2017	28380423	DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) is a major epigenetic regulator associated with many biological processes. However, the roles and mechanisms of DNMT1 in skin aging are incompletely understood. Here we explored the role of DNMT1 in human skin fibroblasts senescence and its related regulatory mechanisms. DNMT1 expression decreased in passage-aged fibroblasts and DNMT1 silencing in young fibroblasts induced the senescence phenotype. MiR-217 is predicted to target DNMT1 mRNA and miR-217 expression increased in passage-aged fibroblasts. MiR-217 directly targeted the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of DNMT1 in HEK 293T cells and inhibited DNMT1 expression in fibroblasts. MiR-217 overexpression induced a senescence phenotype in young fibroblasts, and miR-217 downregulation in old HSFs partially reversed the senescence phenotype. However, these effects could be significantly rescued by regulating DNMT1 expression in fibroblasts. After regulating miR-217 levels, we analyzed changes in the promoter methylation levels of 24 senescent-associated genes, finding that 6 genes were significantly altered, and verified p16 and phosphorylated retinoblastoma (pRb) protein levels. Finally, an inverse correlation between DNMT1 and miR-217 expression was observed in skin tissues and different-aged fibroblasts. Together, these findings revealed that miR-217 promotes fibroblasts senescence by suppressing DNMT1-mediated methylation of p16 and pRb by targeting the DNMT1 3'-UTR.	Dnmt1;miR-217;senescence;skin aging
Asymmetrical dimethylarginine promotes the senescence of human skin fibroblasts via the activation of a reactive oxygen species-p38 MAPK-microRNA-138 pathway	B. Wang, et al.	2015	25818871		Acetylcysteine/pharmacology;Arginine/ analogs & derivatives/metabolism/pharmacology;Back;Cell Aging/ drug effects;Cells, Cultured;Child;Enzyme Inhibitors/pharmacology;Face;Fibroblasts/ metabolism/radiation effects;Free Radical Scavengers/pharmacology;Humans;Imidazoles/pharmacology;MAP Kinase Signaling System/drug effects;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Pyridines/pharmacology;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Skin/ metabolism;Skin Aging/physiology;Ultraviolet Rays;Adma;Mmp-1;Ros;Skin senescence;miR-138;p38MAPK
Up-regulation of p21(WAF1/CIP1) by miRNAs and its implications in bladder cancer cells	C. Wang, et al.	2014	25447520	We have previously reported that synthetic dsRNA can activate p21 expression by targeting the p21 promoter, thereby suppressing the proliferation of human bladder cancer cells. As complementarity between dsRNA and its target sequences is necessary for RNA activation, miRNAs may also trigger p21 expression through the same mechanism. Here, the expression levels of three miRNAs (miR-370, miR-1180 and miR-1236) decreased in bladder cancer tissues compared to healthy controls and the levels of these mRNAs positively correlated with p21 mRNA levels. The three miRNAs induced nuclear p21 expression through p21-promoter binding. Overexpression of the three miRNAs inhibited the proliferation of bladder cancer cells mainly by regulating p21. Therefore, these miRNAs could be candidates for anti-cancer drugs.	Apoptosis/genetics;Base Sequence;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Cycle Checkpoints/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Movement/genetics;Cell Proliferation;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/genetics;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neoplasm Invasiveness;Promoter Regions, Genetic/genetics;Transcriptional Activation;Up-Regulation/ genetics;Urinary Bladder Neoplasms/ pathology;Bladder cancer;Gene promoter;RNA activation;miRNA;p21
The Anti-dementia Effects of Donepezil Involve miR-206-3p in the Hippocampus and Cortex	C. N. Wang, et al.	2017	28123152	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a most serious age-related neurodegenerative disorder accompanied with significant memory impairments in this world. Recently, microRNAs (miRNAs) have been reported to be invlolved in the pathophysiology of AD. Previous studies have shown that miRNA-206 (miR-206) is implicated in the pathogenesis of AD via suppressing the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the brain. Here, we examined the miR-206-3p and miR-206-5p expression in the hippocampus and cortex of Abeta precursor protein (APP)/presenilin-1 (PS1) transgenic mice treated with donepezil, a drug approved for treating AD in clinic. We found that the expression of miR-206-3p was significantly up-regulated in the hippocampus and cortex of APP/PS1 mice, while donepezil administration significantly reversed this dysfunction. In addition, enhancing the miR-206-3p level by the usage of AgomiR-206-3p significantly attenuated the anti-dementia effects of donepezil in APP/PS1 mice. Together, these results suggested that miR-206-3p is involved in the anti-dementia effects of donepezil, and could be a novel pharmacological target for treating AD.	Alzheimer Disease/ drug therapy/genetics;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/genetics/metabolism;Animals;Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor/ genetics/metabolism;Cerebral Cortex/ drug effects/metabolism;Hippocampus/ drug effects/metabolism;Humans;Indans/ pharmacology/therapeutic use;Maze Learning/drug effects;Memory/drug effects;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/agonists/ metabolism;Piperidines/ pharmacology/therapeutic use;Presenilin-1/genetics/metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction
MicroRNA-145 as one negative regulator of astrogliosis	C. Y. Wang, et al.	2015	25139829	Astrogliosis occurs at the lesion site within days to weeks after spinal cord injury (SCI) and involves the proliferation and hypertrophy of astrocytes, leading to glia scar formation. Changes in gene expression by deregulated microRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in the process of central nervous system neurodegeneration. Here, we report that mir-145, a miRNA enriched in rat spinal neurons and astrocytes, was downregulated at 1 week and 1 month after SCI. Our in vitro studies using astrocytes prepared from neonatal spinal cord tissues indicated that potent inflammagen lipopolysaccharide downregulated mir-145 expression in astrocytes, suggesting that SCI-triggered inflammatory signaling pathways could play the inhibitory role in astrocytic mir-145 expression. To induce overexpression of mir-145 in astrocytes at the spinal cord lesion site, we developed a lentivirus-mediated pre-miRNA delivery system using the promoter of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), an astrocyte-specific intermediate filament. The results indicated that astrocyte-specific overexpression of mir-145 reduced astrocytic cell density at the lesion border of the injured spinal cord. In parallel, overexpression of mir-145 reduced the size of astrocytes and the number of related cell processes, as well as cell proliferation and migration. Through a luciferase reporter system, we found that GFAP and c-myc were the two potential targets of mir-145 in astrocytes. Together, the findings demonstrate the novel role of mir-145 in the regulation of astrocytic dynamics, and reveal that the downregulation of mir-145 in astrocytes is a critical factor inducing astrogliosis after SCI. GLIA 2015;63:194-205.	Animals;Animals, Newborn;Astrocytes/drug effects/metabolism;Cell Movement/drug effects/genetics;Cells, Cultured;Cytokines/pharmacology;Disease Models, Animal;Enzyme Inhibitors/pharmacology;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/physiology;Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein/metabolism;Gliosis/ etiology/ therapy;Gray Matter/metabolism/pathology;Lipopolysaccharides/pharmacology;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism/ therapeutic use;Neurons/drug effects/metabolism;Phosphopyruvate Hydratase/metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-myc/metabolism;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Signal Transduction/drug effects;Spinal Cord Injuries/ complications/pathology/therapy;astrocytes;astrogliosis;inflammation;microRNA;mir-145;spinal cord injury
LIN-28 balances longevity and germline stem cell number in Caenorhabditis elegans through let-7/AKT/DAF-16 axis	D. Wang, et al.	2017	27730721	The RNA-binding protein LIN-28 was first found to control developmental timing in Caenorhabditis elegans. Later, it was found to play important roles in pluripotency, metabolism, and cancer in mammals. Here we report that a low dosage of lin-28 enhanced stress tolerance and longevity, and reduced germline stem/progenitor cell number in C. elegans. The germline LIN-28-regulated microRNA let-7 was required for these effects by targeting akt-1/2 and decreasing their protein levels. AKT-1/2 and the downstream DAF-16 transcription factor were both required for the lifespan and germline stem cell effects of lin-28. The pathway also mediated dietary restriction induced lifespan extension and reduction in germline stem cell number. Thus, the LIN-28/let-7/AKT/DAF-16 axis we delineated here is a program that plays an important role in balancing reproduction and somatic maintenance and their response to the environmental energy level-a central dogma of the 'evolutionary optimization' of resource allocation that modulates aging.	Animals;Caenorhabditis elegans/ physiology;Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins/ metabolism;Cell Count;Cell Proliferation/radiation effects;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Germ Cells/ cytology;Hot Temperature;Longevity/ physiology/radiation effects;Oxidative Stress/radiation effects;Signal Transduction/radiation effects;Stem Cells/ cytology/metabolism/radiation effects;Stress, Physiological/radiation effects;Ultraviolet Rays;Caenorhabditis elegans;Daf-16;Lin-28;let-7;longevity;reproduction
MicroRNA Regulation and its Biological Significance in Personalized Medicine and Aging	D. E. Wang	2009	19881907		
MicroRNA-146a suppresses ROCK1 allowing hyperphosphorylation of tau in Alzheimer's disease	G. Wang, et al.	2016	27221467	MicroRNA-146a is upregulated in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we show that the rho-associated, coiled-coil containing protein kinase 1 (ROCK1) is a target of microRNA-146a in neural cells. Knockdown of ROCK1 mimicked the effects of microRNA-146a overexpression and induced abnormal tau phosphorylation, which was associated with inhibition of phosphorylation of the phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN). The ROCK1/PTEN pathway has been implicated in the neuronal hyperphosphorylation of tau that occurs in AD. To determine the function of ROCK1 in AD, brain tissue from 17 donors with low, intermediate or high probability of AD pathology were obtained and analyzed. Data showed that ROCK1 protein levels were reduced and ROCK1 colocalised with hyperphosphorylated tau in early neurofibrillary tangles. Intra-hippocampal delivery of a microRNA-146a specific inhibitor (antagomir) into 5xFAD mice showed enhanced hippocampal levels of ROCK1 protein and repressed tau hyperphosphorylation, partly restoring memory function in the 5xFAD mice. Our in vitro and in vivo results confirm that dysregulation of microRNA-146a biogenesis contributes to tau hyperphosphorylation and AD pathogenesis, and inhibition of this microRNA could be a viable novel in vivo therapy for AD.	
Zbtb7a suppresses prostate cancer through repression of a Sox9-dependent pathway for cellular senescence bypass and tumor invasion	G. Wang, et al.	2013	23727861	Zbtb7a has previously been described as a powerful proto-oncogene. Here we unexpectedly demonstrate that Zbtb7a has a critical oncosuppressive role in the prostate. Prostate-specific inactivation of Zbtb7a leads to a marked acceleration of Pten loss-driven prostate tumorigenesis through bypass of Pten loss-induced cellular senescence (PICS). We show that ZBTB7A physically interacts with SOX9 and functionally antagonizes its transcriptional activity on key target genes such as MIA, which is involved in tumor cell invasion, and H19, a long noncoding RNA precursor for an RB-targeting microRNA. Inactivation of Zbtb7a in vivo leads to Rb downregulation, PICS bypass and invasive prostate cancer. Notably, we found that ZBTB7A is genetically lost, as well as downregulated at both the mRNA and protein levels, in a subset of human advanced prostate cancers. Thus, we identify ZBTB7A as a context-dependent cancer gene that can act as an oncogene in some contexts but also has oncosuppressive-like activity in PTEN-null tumors.	Animals;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Transformation, Neoplastic/genetics;DNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/metabolism/ physiology;Down-Regulation/genetics;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/physiology;Genes, Tumor Suppressor/physiology;Humans;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;Models, Biological;Neoplasm Invasiveness;PTEN Phosphohydrolase/genetics/metabolism;Prostatic Neoplasms/genetics/ pathology;SOX9 Transcription Factor/ genetics/metabolism/physiology;Signal Transduction/genetics;Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism/ physiology
MicroRNA-411 inhibited matrix metalloproteinase 13 expression in human chondrocytes	G. Wang, et al.	2015	26692943	Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common joint degenerative disease affecting the joint structure, leading to loss of joint function and tissue destruction. Recent studies have demonstrated that miRNAs are involved in many pathological conditions, including OA. The study was to investigate the role of miR-411 in the pathogenesis of OA. The expression of miR-411 was downregulated in OA cartilage compared with in normal cartilage. Conversely, the expression of MMP-13 was upregulated in OA cartilage compared with in normal cartilage. IL-1beta treatment repressed miR-411 expression in chondrocytes. Moreover, we identified MMP-13 as a direct target gene of miR-411 in chondrocytes and overexpression of miR-411 inhibited the MMP-13 expression. Furthermore, overexpression of miR-411 increased the expression of type II collagen and type IV collagen expression in chondrocytes. MiR-411 is a crucial regulator of MMP-13 in chondrocytes and may response to the development of OA.	Osteoarthritis;chondrocytes;miR-411;miRNA
Inhibition of miR-155 Protects Against LPS-induced Cardiac Dysfunction and Apoptosis in Mice	H. Wang, et al.	2016	27727247	Sepsis-induced myocardial dysfunction represents a major cause of death in intensive care units. Dysregulated microRNAs (miR)-155 has been implicated in multiple cardiovascular diseases and miR-155 can be induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). However, the role of miR-155 in LPS-induced cardiac dysfunction is unclear. Septic cardiac dysfunction in mice was induced by intraperitoneal injection of LPS (5 mg/kg) and miR-155 was found to be significantly increased in heart challenged with LPS. Pharmacological inhibition of miR-155 using antagomiR improved cardiac function and suppressed cardiac apoptosis induced by LPS in mice as determined by echocardiography, terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase nick-end labeling (TUNEL) assay, and Western blot for Bax and Bcl-2, while overexpression of miR-155 using agomiR had inverse effects. Pea15a was identified as a target gene of miR-155, mediating its effects in controlling apoptosis of cardiomyocytes as evidenced by luciferase reporter assays, quantitative real time-polymerase chain reaction, Western blot, and TUNEL staining. Noteworthy, miR-155 was also found to be upregulated in the plasma of patients with septic cardiac dysfunction compared to sepsis patients without cardiac dysfunction, indicating a potential clinical relevance of miR-155. The receiver-operator characteristic curve indicated that plasma miR-155 might be a biomarker for sepsis patients developing cardiac dysfunction. Therefore, inhibition of miR-155 represents a novel therapy for septic myocardial dysfunction.	
miR-21-3p controls sepsis-associated cardiac dysfunction via regulating SORBS2	H. Wang, et al.	2016	27033308	Cardiac dysfunction with sepsis is a major cause of death in intensive care units. Several lines of evidence have revealed the potential of microRNAs (miRNAs, miRs) as biomarkers for detecting sepsis, though direct evidence of their functional roles in septic cardiac dysfunction is still lacking. In this study, C57BL/6 mice were exposed to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to induce sepsis-associated cardiac dysfunction, as evidenced by reduced fractional shortening (FS) and ejection fraction (EF) and detrimental changes in cardiac contractility, inflammation, and energy metabolism. Microarray analysis and qRT-PCRs revealed that miR-21-3p was significantly induced in heart samples challenged with LPS. Impressively, pharmacological inhibition of miR-21-3p using antagomiR was able to preserve FS and EF and prevent mitochondria ultrastructural damage and autophagy in LPS-treated mice, while forced expression of miR-21-3p using agomiR aggravated that. Besides that, miR-21-3p antagomiR improved the survival of mice treated with LPS. Meanwhile, our data showed that SH3 domain-containing protein 2 (SORBS2) was inversely correlated with miR-21-3p expression level in mice hearts, and was repressed in hearts challenged with LPS, suggesting SORBS2 as a target gene of miR-21-3p. Additionally, plasma miR-21-3p was markedly elevated in septic patients with cardiac dysfunction as compared to septic patients without cardiac dysfunction. The ROC curve showed that plasma miR-21-3p could be a specific predictor of septic patients developing cardiac dysfunction with an area under the curve of 0.939. Collectively, the present study provides strong evidence that miR-21-3p controls sepsis-associated cardiac dysfunction via regulating SORBS2. Inhibition of miR-21-3p might be a protective strategy to treat sepsis-induced cardiac dysfunction.	Animals;Cell Survival/genetics;Energy Metabolism;Gene Expression;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Lipopolysaccharides/adverse effects;Male;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Microfilament Proteins/ genetics;Myocardial Contraction/genetics;Myocardium/metabolism;Myocytes, Cardiac/metabolism/ultrastructure;RNA Interference;ROC Curve;Rats;Sepsis/ complications/ genetics;Ventricular Dysfunction/ etiology/ physiopathology;Cardiac dysfunction;Lps;Sorbs2;Sepsis;miR-21-3p (miR-21 )
A powerful statistical method identifies novel loci associated with diastolic blood pressure triggered by nonlinear gene-environment interaction	H. Wang, et al.	2014	25519336	The genetic basis of blood pressure often involves multiple genetic factors and their interactions with environmental factors. Gene-environment interaction is assumed to play an important role in determining individual blood pressure variability. Older people are more prone to high blood pressure than younger ones and the risk may not display a linear trend over the life span. However, which gene shows sensitivity to aging in its effect on blood pressure is not clear. In this work, we allowed the genetic effect to vary over time and propose a varying-coefficient model to identify potential genetic players that show nonlinear response across different age stages. We detected 2 novel loci, gene MIR1263 (a microRNA coding gene) on chromosome 3 and gene UNC13B on chromosome 9, that are nonlinearly associated with diastolic blood pressure. Further experimental validation is needed to confirm this finding.	
miR-106b aberrantly expressed in a double transgenic mouse model for Alzheimer's disease targets TGF-beta type II receptor	H. Wang, et al.	2010	20709030	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are abundantly expressed in the brain and play an important role in disorders of the brain, including Alzheimer's diseases (AD). Growing body of evidence suggests that the TGF-beta signaling pathway plays a key role in the pathogenesis of AD. However, it is unclear whether miRNAs involved in AD pathogenesis by regulating TGF-beta signaling. Here we found that miR-106b and TGF-beta type II receptor (TbetaR II) were aberrantly expressed in APPswe/PSE9 mice (a double transgenic mouse model for AD). Sequence analysis revealed two putative binding sites for miR-106b in the 3' UTR of the TbetaR II mRNA. Our results showed that the expression of miR-106b was inversely correlated with TbetaR II protein levels and miR-106b can directly inhibit the TbetaR II translation in vitro. After induced neurodifferentiation with all-trans retinoic acid, we observed significant neurodegeneration in SH-SY5Y cells stably transfected with miR-106b. Western blot analysis revealed unchanged total Smad2/3 protein levels, but reduced phospho-Smad2/3 (p-Smad2/3) and increased Smad6/7 protein levels in the miR-106b stably transfected cell line. Exposure of SH-SY5Y cells to Abeta42 oligomers led to the expression of miR-106b was first increased and then decreased and TbetaR II levels reduced. Our in vitro results suggested that Abeta42 oligomer-induced miR-106b leads to impairment in TGF-beta signaling through TbetaR II, concomitant with retinoic acid-induced neurodegeneration in SH-SY5Y cells. These results show that TbetaR II is a functional target of miR-106b and that miR-106b may influence TGF-beta signaling, thereby contributing to the pathogenesis of AD.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Blotting, Western;Brain/ metabolism;Cell Line;Cell Survival/physiology;Cells, Cultured;Disease Models, Animal;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neurons/ metabolism;Protein-Serine-Threonine Kinases/genetics/ metabolism;Receptors, Transforming Growth Factor beta/genetics/ metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Smad Proteins/genetics/metabolism
MicroRNA Expression Signature in Human Calcific Aortic Valve Disease	H. Wang, et al.	2017	28497051	Altered microRNA (miRNA, miR) expression has been related to many disease processes; however, the miRNA expression signature in calcific aortic valve disease (CAVD) is unclear. In this study, microarrays were used to determine the miRNA expression signature of tissue samples from healthy individuals (n = 4) and patients with CAVD (n = 4). TargetScan, PITA, and microRNAorg 3-way databases were used to predict the potential target genes. DIANA-miRPath was used to incorporate the aberrant miRNAs into gene pathways. miRNA microarrays identified 92 differentially expressed miRNAs in CAVD tissues. The principal component analysis (PCA) of these samples and the unsupervised hierarchical clustering analysis based on the 92 aberrantly expressed miRNAs noted that miRNA expression could be categorized into two well-defined clusters that corresponded to healthy control and CAVD. Bioinformatic analysis showed the miRNA targets and potential molecular pathways. Collectively, our study reported the miRNA expression signature in CAVD and may provide potential therapeutic targets for CAVD.	
A Critical Role of miR-144 in Diffuse Large B-cell Lymphoma Proliferation and Invasion	H. Wang, et al.	2016	26865454	MicroRNAs are endogenous noncoding RNAs that play important roles in a wide variety of biologic processes such as apoptosis, development, aging, and tumorigenesis. The B-cell lymphoma 6 (BCL6) transcriptional repressor has emerged as a critical therapeutic target in diffuse large B-cell lymphomas (DLBCL), but the mechanisms regulating BCL6 are still unclear. In the current study, we screened the microRNA expression profiles in DLBCL specimens and cell lines by qRT-PCR and found that the expression of miR-144 was significantly downregulated in DLBCL tissues and cell lines and negatively correlated with BCL6 expression. We further demonstrated that BCL6 was the direct target gene of miR-144, and miR-144 suppressed the expression of BCL6 via binding the 3'untranslated region of BCL6 mRNA. Biologically, forced expression of miR-144 significantly attenuated cell proliferation and invasion of OCI-Ly3 cells in vitro, and the tumor-suppressor effect of miR-144 was also confirmed using a xenograft mouse model in vivo Taken together, our results reveal that miR-144 regulates BCL6 in DLBCL and provide a rationale for developing strategies that target miR-144 as a therapeutic intervention for DLBCL.	Animals;Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Cell Cycle;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Cell Survival;Cell Transformation, Neoplastic/genetics;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression;Heterografts;Humans;Immunohistochemistry;Lymphoma, Large B-Cell, Diffuse/ genetics/ pathology;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neoplasm Invasiveness;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-6/genetics/metabolism;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism
MiR-124 Regulates Apoptosis and Autophagy Process in MPTP Model of Parkinson's Disease by Targeting to Bim	H. Wang, et al.	2016	25976060	Parkinson's disease (PD) is the most prevalent movement disorder characterized by selective loss of midbrain dopaminergic (DA) neurons. MicroRNA-124 (miR-124) is abundantly expressed in the DA neurons and its expression level decreases in the 1-methyl-4-pheny-1, 2, 3, 6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) model of PD. However, whether the upregulation of miR-124 could attenuate neurodegeneration remains unknown. Here, we employed miR-124 agomir and miR-124 mimics to upregulate miR-124 expression in MPTP-treated mice and MPP(+) -intoxicated SH-SY5Y cells, respectively. We found that loss of DA neurons and striatal dopamine in MPTP-treated mice was significantly reduced by upregulating miR-124. In addition, we identified a target of miR-124, Bim that mediated the neuroprotection of miR-124. Indeed, treatment of miR-124 agomir in MPTP-treated mice inhibited Bim expression, thus suppressing Bax translocation to mitochondria. Moreover, impaired autophagy process in MPTP-treated mice and MPP(+) -intoxicated SH-SY5Y cells characterized as autophagosomes (AP) accumulation and lysosomal depletion were alleviated by the upregulation of miR-124. Taken together, these results indicate that upregulation of miR-124 could regulate apoptosis and impaired autophagy process in the MPTP model of PD, thus reducing the loss of DA neurons.	Active Transport, Cell Nucleus/physiology;Animals;Apoptosis/physiology;Autophagy/physiology;Bcl-2-Like Protein 11/ metabolism;Cell Line, Tumor;Corpus Striatum/metabolism/pathology;Dopamine/metabolism;Dopaminergic Neurons/metabolism/pathology;Humans;MPTP Poisoning/ metabolism/pathology;Male;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Up-Regulation;bcl-2-Associated X Protein/metabolism;Bax;Bim;Parkinson's disease;apoptosis;autophagy;miR-124
Computational Prediction of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's Disease MicroRNAs in Domestic Animals	H. Y. Wang, et al.	2016	26954182	As the most common neurodegenerative diseases, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are two of the main health concerns for the elderly population. Recently, microRNAs (miRNAs) have been used as biomarkers of infectious, genetic, and metabolic diseases in humans but they have not been well studied in domestic animals. Here we describe a computational biology study in which human AD- and PD-associated miRNAs (ADM and PDM) were utilized to predict orthologous miRNAs in the following domestic animal species: dog, cow, pig, horse, and chicken. In this study, a total of 121 and 70 published human ADM and PDM were identified, respectively. Thirty-seven miRNAs were co-regulated in AD and PD. We identified a total of 105 unrepeated human ADM and PDM that had at least one 100% identical animal homolog, among which 81 and 54 showed 100% sequence identity with 241 and 161 domestic animal miRNAs, respectively. Over 20% of the total mature horse miRNAs (92) showed perfect matches to AD/PD-associated miRNAs. Pigs, dogs, and cows have similar numbers of AD/PD-associated miRNAs (63, 62, and 59). Chickens had the least number of perfect matches (34). Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses suggested that humans and dogs are relatively similar in the functional pathways of the five selected highly conserved miRNAs. Taken together, our study provides the first evidence for better understanding the miRNA-AD/PD associations in domestic animals, and provides guidance to generate domestic animal models of AD/PD to replace the current rodent models.	Alzheimer's Disease;Domestic Animals;Homology;Parkinson's Disease;microRNA
MicroRNA regulation in an animal model of acute ocular hypertension	J. Wang, et al.	2017	27535721	PURPOSE: To analyse miRNA regulation in a rat model of acute ocular hypertension (AOH). METHODS: Acute ocular hypertension (AOH) was induced in the left eye of adult albino rats by inserting a cannula connected with a saline container into the anterior chamber. The contralateral eye served as a control. Seven days later, animals were killed. Retinas were used either for quantitative analysis of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and microglial cells or for miRNA array hybridization, qRT-PCR and Western blotting. RESULTS: Anatomically, AOH caused axonal degeneration, a significant loss of RGCs and a significant increase in microglial cells in the ganglion cell layer. The miRNAs microarray analysis revealed 31 differentially expressed miRNAs in the AOH versus control group, and the regulation of 12 selected microRNAs was further confirmed by qRT-PCR. Bioinformatic analysis indicates that several signalling pathways are putatively regulated by the validated miRNAs. Of particular interest was the inflammatory pathway signalled by mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs). In agreement with the in silico analysis, p38 MAP kinase, tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and iNOS proteins were significantly upregulated in the AOH retinas. CONCLUSIONS: Acute IOP elevation led to changes in the expression of miRNAs, whose target genes were associated with the regulation of microglia-mediated neuroinflammation or neural apoptosis. Addressing miRNAs in the process of retinal ischaemia and optic nerve damage in association with high IOP elevation may open new avenues in preventing retinal ganglion cell apoptosis and may serve as target for future therapeutic regimen in acute ocular hypertension and retinal ischaemic conditions.	Acute Disease;Animals;Blotting, Western;Cell Survival;Disease Models, Animal;Female;Intraocular Pressure;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Microglia/ metabolism/pathology;Nerve Degeneration/metabolism/pathology;Nucleic Acid Hybridization;Ocular Hypertension/ metabolism;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Retinal Ganglion Cells/ metabolism/pathology;Signal Transduction;Up-Regulation;acute glaucoma model;acute ocular hypertension;microRNA;optic nerve damage;retinal ganglion cells;retinal ischaemia;retinal microglia
Exosomes and Homeostatic Synaptic Plasticity Are Linked to Each other and to Huntington's, Parkinson's, and Other Neurodegenerative Diseases by Database-Enabled Analyses of Comprehensively Curated Datasets	J. K. T. Wang, et al.	2017	28611571	Huntington's disease (HD) is a progressive and autosomal dominant neurodegeneration caused by CAG expansion in the huntingtin gene (HTT), but the pathophysiological mechanism of mutant HTT (mHTT) remains unclear. To study HD using systems biological methodologies on all published data, we undertook the first comprehensive curation of two key PubMed HD datasets: perturbation genes that impact mHTT-driven endpoints and therefore are putatively linked causally to pathogenic mechanisms, and the protein interactome of HTT that reflects its biology. We perused PubMed articles containing co-citation of gene IDs and MeSH terms of interest to generate mechanistic gene sets for iterative enrichment analyses and rank ordering. The HD Perturbation database of 1,218 genes highly overlaps the HTT Interactome of 1,619 genes, suggesting links between normal HTT biology and mHTT pathology. These two HD datasets are enriched for protein networks of key genes underlying two mechanisms not previously implicated in HD nor in each other: exosome synaptic functions and homeostatic synaptic plasticity. Moreover, proteins, possibly including HTT, and miRNA detected in exosomes from a wide variety of sources also highly overlap the HD datasets, suggesting both mechanistic and biomarker links. Finally, the HTT Interactome highly intersects protein networks of pathogenic genes underlying Parkinson's, Alzheimer's and eight non-HD polyglutamine diseases, ALS, and spinal muscular atrophy. These protein networks in turn highly overlap the exosome and homeostatic synaptic plasticity gene sets. Thus, we hypothesize that HTT and other neurodegeneration pathogenic genes form a large interlocking protein network involved in exosome and homeostatic synaptic functions, particularly where the two mechanisms intersect. Mutant pathogenic proteins cause dysfunctions at distinct points in this network, each altering the two mechanisms in specific fashion that contributes to distinct disease pathologies, depending on the gene mutation and the cellular and biological context. This protein network is rich with drug targets, and exosomes may provide disease biomarkers, thus enabling drug discovery. All the curated datasets are made available for other investigators. Elucidating the roles of pathogenic neurodegeneration genes in exosome and homeostatic synaptic functions may provide a unifying framework for the age-dependent, progressive and tissue selective nature of multiple neurodegenerative diseases.	Alzheimer's disease (AD);amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS);extracellular vesicles;polyglutamine;spinal muscular atrophy (SMA);synaptic plasticity;synaptic scaling;systems biology
Oxidative Modification of miR-184 Enables It to Target Bcl-xL and Bcl-w	J. X. Wang, et al.	2015	26028536	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs, and they bind to complementary sequences in the three prime untranslated regions (3' UTRs) of target mRNA transcripts, thereby inhibiting mRNA translation or promoting mRNA degradation. Excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS) can cause cell-damaging effects through oxidative modification of macromolecules leading to their inappropriate functions. Such oxidative modification is related to cancers, aging, and neurodegenerative and cardiovascular diseases. Here we report that miRNAs can be oxidatively modified by ROS. We identified that miR-184 upon oxidative modification associates with the 3' UTRs of Bcl-xL and Bcl-w that are not its native targets. The mismatch of oxidized miR-184 with Bcl-xL and Bcl-w is involved in the initiation of apoptosis in the study with rat heart cell line H9c2 and mouse models. Our results reveal a model of ROS in regulating cellular events by oxidatively modifying miRNA.	3' Untranslated Regions/ genetics;Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Cell Line;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Myocardium/cytology/metabolism;Oxidation-Reduction;Proteins/ genetics;RNA Interference;RNA, Small Interfering;Rats;Reactive Oxygen Species/ metabolism;bcl-X Protein/ genetics
The different expression profiles of microRNAs in elderly and young human dental pulp and the role of miR-433 in human dental pulp cells	K. Wang, et al.	2015	25778413	As a kind of endogenous noncoding small RNA, MicroRNA (miRNA) plays important roles of regulation to various physiological functions, while its affections on senescence of human dental pulp cell (HDPCs) are still unknown. Thus, we identified the senescence-associated miRNAs in HDPCs by microarray analysis, predicted their targets and regulatory signaling pathway by gene ontology and Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes pathway database analysis. After validated, the senescence-associated miRNAs' expression level was up- and down-regulated using lentivirus package and cell transfection to find its role in HDPCs' morphology, proliferation, apoptosis, and mineralization. The results showed 27 miRNAs differentially expressed at least 1.5-fold, of which 16 were up-regulated and 11 down-regulated, the function of their targets was mainly focused on signal transduction, cell proliferation, apoptosis, and transcription regulation. According to the change fold, we speculated that miR-433 could be one of the vital senescence-associated miRNAs of HDPCs and found its target (GRB2), validated that miR-433 could negatively regulate GRB2 and the RAS-MAPK signaling pathway, leading to the decline of proliferation and mineralization ability of HDPCs and the acceleration of cell apoptosis, suggesting the regulation of miR-433 might be the potential target to promote repair and regeneration of HDPCs in the elderly.	Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Aging/metabolism;Apoptosis/ physiology;Cell Aging/physiology;Cell Proliferation/ physiology;Cells, Cultured;Dental Pulp/cytology/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation/ physiology;Humans;MAP Kinase Signaling System/ physiology;Male;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Grb2;Human dental pulp cell;MicroRNAs;RAS-MAPK signaling pathways;Senescence
Dissection of functional lncRNAs in Alzheimer's disease by construction and analysis of lncRNA-mRNA networks based on competitive endogenous RNAs	L. K. Wang, et al.	2017	27913295	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that is the most common cause of dementia in the elderly, and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) are one of the pathological features of AD. Recent studies have suggested long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) play important roles in AD. Competing endogenous RNAs (ceRNAs) is a mechanism that has recently been proposed, in which lncRNAs compete for common miRNA-binding sites with mRNAs. However, the roles of lncRNAs and ceRNA in AD NFTs is limited. In this study, we constructed a global triple network based on ceRNA theory, then an AD NFT lncRNA-mRNA network (NFTLMN) was generated. By analyzing the NFTLMN, three lncRNAs (AP000265.1, KB-1460A1.5 and RP11-145M9.4), which are highly related with AD NFTs were identified. To further explore the cross-talk between mRNAs and lncRNAs, a clustering module analysis was performed on the NFTLMN and two AD NFT related modules were identified. Our study provides a better understanding of the molecular basis of AD NFTs and may offer novel treatment strategies for AD.	Alzheimer's disease;Competing endogenous RNAs (ceRNAs);Intracellular neurofibrillary tangles (NFT);Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs);Network
miR-124/ATF-6, a novel lifespan extension pathway of Astragalus polysaccharide in Caenorhabditis elegans	N. Wang, et al.	2015	25186652	MicroRNAs (miRNAs), especially evolutionarily conserved miRNAs play critical roles in regulating various biological process. However, the functions of conserved miRNAs in longevity are still largely unknown. Astragalus polysaccharide (APS) was recently shown to extend lifespan of Caenorhabditis elegans, but its molecular mechanisms have not been fully understood. In the present study, we characterize that microRNA mediated a novel longevity pathway of APS in C. elegans. We found that APS markedly extended the lifespan of C. elegans at the second and the fourth stages. A highly conserved miRNA miR-124 was significantly upregulated in APS-treated C. elegans. Overexpression miR-124 caused the lifespan extension of C. elegans and vice versa, indicating miR-124 regulates the longevity of C. elegans. Using luciferase assay, atf-6 was established as a target gene of miR-124 which acting on three binding sites at atf-6 3'UTR. Consistently, agomir-cel-miR-124 was also shown to inhibit ATF-6 expression in C. elegans. APS-treated C. elegans showed the down-regulation of atf-6 at protein level. Furthermore, the knockdown of atf-6 by RNAi extended the lifespan of C. elegans, indicating atf-6 regulated by miR-124 contributes to lifespan extension. Taken together, miR-124 regulating ATF-6 is a new potential longevity signal pathway, which underlies the lifespan-extending effects of APS in C. elegans.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Animals;Astragalus Plant/chemistry;Base Sequence;Binding Sites/genetics;Caenorhabditis elegans/ drug effects/genetics/physiology;Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Longevity/ drug effects/genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Microscopy, Fluorescence;Mutation;Polysaccharides/ pharmacology;RNA Interference;RNA, Helminth/genetics/metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction/drug effects/genetics;Survival Analysis;Transcription Factors/ genetics/metabolism;Astragalus polysaccharides;Atf-6;Caenorhabditis elegans;Lifespan;miR-124
miR-26b-3p Regulates Human Umbilical Cord-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cell Proliferation by Targeting Estrogen Receptor	Q. Wang, et al.	2016	26723394	Human umbilical cord-derived mesenchymal stem cells (hUC-MSC) have been considered as promising candidates for cell-based regeneration medicine. However, the application was limited to its poor in vitro proliferation ability against the huge demand of cells. MicroRNA plays important roles in the regulation of cell proliferation, apoptosis, and differentiation. The objective of this study is to explore the roles of miRNAs in regulating the in vitro proliferation of hUC-MSC and unveil their possible mechanism. In this study, we found that miR-26b-3p was significantly upregulated during serial in vitro passage of hUC-MSC and was correlated with cellular senescence and cell cycle genes. The overexpression of miR-26b-3p greatly inhibited the proliferation of hUC-MSC in vitro, which is indicated by 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine (EdU) incorporation assay, cell cycle, and cell growth curve analyses. miR-26b-3p suppression partly rescued this phenotype by maintaining its proliferation ability in vitro. For mechanism studies, we predicted and validated that miR-26b-3p suppresses estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) expression by directly binding to the coding sequence (CDS) region of its message RNA (mRNA), thus subsequently changing the expression of its downstream effector Cyclin D1. In conclusion, we found that miR-26b-3p played an important role in the regulation of hUC-MSC proliferation in vitro by targeting the ESR-CCND1 pathway.	Adipogenesis;Base Sequence;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Differentiation;Cell Proliferation;Cyclin D1/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ cytology/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Receptors, Estrogen/ genetics/metabolism;Umbilical Cord/ cytology
Genetic determinants of neuroglobin transcription	R. Wang, et al.	2014	24362753	Neuroglobin (NGB) is a neuron-specific vertebrate globin shown to protect against hypoxia, ischemia, oxidative stress and the toxic effects of Amyloid-beta. Following on our and others' results highlighting the importance of NGB expression in disease, we searched for genetic determinants of its expression. We found that a microRNA expressed with the NGB transcript shows significant target enrichments in the angiogenesis pathway and the Alzheimer disease/presenilin pathway. Using reporter constructs we identified potential promoter/enhancer elements between the transcription start site and 1,142 bp upstream. Using 184 post-mortem temporal lobe samples we replicated the reported negative effect of age, and after genotyping tagging SNPs we found one (rs981471) showing a significant correlation with the gene's expression and another (rs8014408) showing an interaction with age, the rare C allele being correlated with higher expression and faster decline. The two SNPs are towards the 3' end of NGB within the same LD block, 52 Kb apart and modestly correlated (r (2) = 0.5). Next generation sequencing of the same 184 temporal lobe samples and 79 confirmed AD patients across the entire gene region (including >12 Kb on the 3' and 5' flank) revealed limited coding variation, suggesting purifying selection of NGB, but did not identify regulatory or disease associated rare variants. A dinucleotide repeat in intron 1 with extensive evidence of functionality showed interesting but inconclusive results, as it was not amenable to further molecular analysis.	Aged;Alleles;Alzheimer Disease/genetics;Amino Acid Sequence;Animals;Brain/pathology;Chickens;Computational Biology;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Genes, Reporter;Genetic Variation;Genome;Genotype;Globins/ biosynthesis/ genetics;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Humans;Linkage Disequilibrium;Male;Mice;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Middle Aged;Molecular Sequence Data;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ biosynthesis/ genetics;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Promoter Regions, Genetic;Sequence Homology, Amino Acid;Temporal Lobe/metabolism;Transcription, Genetic;Zebrafish
Dysregulation of miRNA isoform level at 5' end in Alzheimer's disease	S. Wang, et al.	2016	26899870	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia, whose mechanism is still not yet fully understood. A miRNA-based signature method, commonly according to the changes of expression levels, is widely used for AD analysis in previous studies. Recently, miRNA isoforms called as isomiR variants, which is considered to play important biological roles, have been demonstrated as the applications of high throughput sequencing platforms. Here, we presented an entropy-based model to detect the miRNA isoform level at the 5' end, and found many miRNAs with significant changes of isoform levels between the early stage and the late stage of AD by the application of this model to the public data. The statistical significance of the overlap between isoform-level changed miRNAs and AD related miRNAs extracted from HMDD2 supports that these miRNA isoforms are not degradation products. Based on the most common isomiR seed analysis of isoform-level changed AD related miRNAs, the predicted targets are also found to be enriched for genes involved in transcriptional regulation and the nervous system. After comparing with the expression level based method, we detected that changes of 5' isoform levels are more stable than those of expression levels for AD related miRNA detecting.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics;Base Sequence;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Molecular Sequence Data;Sequence Homology, Nucleic Acid;Alzheimer's disease;Dysregulation;Isoform level;IsomiR;miRNA
The feasibility of utilizing plasma MiRNA107 and BACE1 messenger RNA gene expression for clinical diagnosis of amnestic mild cognitive impairment	T. Wang, et al.	2015	25742200	OBJECTIVE: To investigate the relationship between microRNA107 (miRNA107) and BACE1 messenger RNA (mRNA) gene expressions in plasma and their diagnostic capability to distinguish subjects with amnestic mild cognitive impairment from healthy controls. METHOD: We recruited 97 patients with Alzheimer's disease according to diagnostic criteria of DSM-IV and National Institute of Neurologic and Communicative Disorders and Stroke/Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association, 116 subjects with amnestic mild cognitive impairment, and 81 healthy controls from January 2012 to December 2012. The real-time PCR was used to quantify miRNA107 and BACE1 mRNA. The power of classification accuracies between patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment and healthy controls was performed using linear discriminate analysis single or combining both the expression miRNA107 and BACE1 mRNA. RESULTS: For patients with Alzheimer's disease, the miRNA107 expressions in plasma and cerebral spinal fluid were correlated (Pearson correlation = 0.665, P = .034). There were statistically significant correlations between plasma miRNA107 and BACE1 mRNA gene expression in Alzheimer's disease, amnestic mild cognitive impairment, and healthy control groups (r value = -0.316 [P = .002], -0.615 [P < .001], and -0.367 [P = .001], respectively). The overall classification accuracy of miRNA107 to discriminate between patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment and healthy controls was 91.9%, with sensitivity of 98.3% and specificity of 82.7%. CONCLUSIONS: The miRNA107 expression in plasma has a high capability to discriminate between patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment and healthy controls. TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov identifier: NCT01819545.	Aged;Alzheimer Disease/blood/ diagnosis/ genetics;Amnesia/blood/ diagnosis/ genetics;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/ blood/ genetics;Apolipoproteins E/blood/genetics;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/ blood/ genetics;China;Cognitive Dysfunction/blood/ diagnosis/ genetics;Feasibility Studies;Female;Gene Expression/ genetics;Genetic Markers/genetics;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/ genetics;Neuropsychological Tests;RNA, Messenger/ blood/ genetics;Reference Values
The histone demethylases Jhdm1a/1b enhance somatic cell reprogramming in a vitamin-C-dependent manner	T. Wang, et al.	2011	22100412	Reprogramming of somatic cells into induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) resets the epigenome to an embryonic-like state. Vitamin C enhances the reprogramming process, but the underlying mechanisms are unclear. Here we show that the histone demethylases Jhdm1a/1b are key effectors of somatic cell reprogramming downstream of vitamin C. We first observed that vitamin C induces H3K36me2/3 demethylation in mouse embryonic fibroblasts in culture and during reprogramming. We then identified Jhdm1a/1b, two known vitamin-C-dependent H3K36 demethylases, as potent regulators of reprogramming through gain- and loss-of-function approaches. Furthermore, we found that Jhdm1b accelerates cell cycle progression and suppresses cell senescence during reprogramming by repressing the Ink4/Arf locus. Jhdm1b also cooperates with Oct4 to activate the microRNA cluster 302/367, an integral component of the pluripotency machinery. Our results therefore reveal a role for H3K36me2/3 in cell fate determination and establish a link between histone demethylases and vitamin-C-induced reprogramming.	Animals;Antioxidants/ pharmacology;Ascorbic Acid/ pharmacology;Cell Aging/physiology;Cell Cycle/physiology;Cells, Cultured;Cellular Reprogramming/ drug effects;F-Box Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Fibroblasts/cytology/physiology;Histones/genetics/metabolism;Humans;Jumonji Domain-Containing Histone Demethylases/genetics/ metabolism;Lysine/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;Octamer Transcription Factor-3/genetics/metabolism;Pluripotent Stem Cells/cytology/ physiology
Identification of microRNAome in rat bladder reveals miR-1949 as a potential inducer of bladder cancer following spinal cord injury	T. Wang, et al.	2015	25962430	The costs of spinal cord injury and its complications are high in personal, social and financial terms. Complications include bladder cancer, for which the risk is 16-28 times higher than that of the general population, There is currently little consensus regarding the cause of this discrepancy. As microRNAs are stable biomarkers and potential therapeutic targets of cancer, the present study aimed to explore the underlying mechanisms of this phenomenon by examining changes in the microRNAome. Rats were used to produce models of spinal cord injury. Microarrays and bioinformatics were used to investigate the cancer-associated microRNAs that are upregulated in rat bladders following spinal cord injury. In order to validate the results, quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), western blotting and immunohistochemistry were performed. The expression of miR-1949 was found to be deregulated and abundant in the rat bladder following spinal cord injury. Bioinformatics demonstrated that retinoblastoma 1, which is involved in tumorigenesis, is a target gene of miR-1949. qRT-PCR, western blotting and immunohistochemistry confirmed the results of the microarray analysis. In addition, it was shown that miR-1949 expression was not influenced by aging. Furthermore, the expression of miR-1949 was stable until the third month following spinal cord injury, after which it significantly increased. If this increase was prolonged, the expression of retinoblastoma 1 may decline to a carcinogenic level. The present study suggests a role for miR-1949 in the translational regulation of retinoblastoma 1 and in subsequent bladder tumorigenesis following spinal cord injury.	Animals;Computational Biology;Female;Immunohistochemistry;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Rats;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Retinoblastoma Protein/genetics/metabolism;Spinal Cord Injuries/ complications;Transcriptome;Up-Regulation;Urinary Bladder/metabolism/pathology;Urinary Bladder Neoplasms/ etiology/pathology
Abnormal Changes of Brain Cortical Anatomy and the Association with Plasma MicroRNA107 Level in Amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment	T. Wang, et al.	2016	27242521	UNLABELLED: MicroRNA107 (Mir107) has been thought to relate to the brain structure phenotype of Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we evaluated the cortical anatomy in amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) and the relation between cortical anatomy and plasma levels of Mir107 and beta-site amyloid precursor protein (APP) cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1). Twenty aMCI (20 aMCI) and 24 cognitively normal control (NC) subjects were recruited, and T1-weighted MR images were acquired. Cortical anatomical measurements, including cortical thickness (CT), surface area (SA), and local gyrification index (LGI), were assessed. Quantitative RT-PCR was used to examine plasma expression of Mir107, BACE1 mRNA. Thinner cortex was found in aMCI in areas associated with episodic memory and language, but with thicker cortex in other areas. SA decreased in aMCI in the areas associated with working memory and emotion. LGI showed a significant reduction in aMCI in the areas involved in language function. Changes in Mir107 and BACE1 messenger RNA plasma expression were correlated with changes in CT and SA. We found alterations in key left brain regions associated with memory, language, and emotion in aMCI that were significantly correlated with plasma expression of Mir107 and BACE1 mRNA. This combination study of brain anatomical alterations and gene information may shed lights on our understanding of the pathology of AD. CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: http://www.ClinicalTrials.gov, identifier NCT01819545.	Alzheimer's disease;amnestic mild cognitive impairment;biological markers;genetics;surface-based morphometry
Expression profiles and function analysis of microRNAs in postovulatory aging mouse oocytes	T. Y. Wang, et al.	2017	28394765	In this study, microRNA (miRNA) profiles in postovulatory aging mouse oocytes were analyzed by microarray screening and RT-qPCR. Hierarchical cluster analysis on the microarray data and KEGG pathway enrichment analysis on the mRNAs targeted by differentially expressed (DE) miRNAs between two adjacent egg-ages suggest that while only a mild alteration in miRNA expression occurred from 13 to 18 h, a great change took place from 18 to 24 h post hCG injection. Theoretical exploration on functions of the predicted target genes suggest that KEGG pathways enriched by 13-18 h DE miRNAs are correlated with early events of oocyte aging while pathways most enriched by 18-24 h or 24-30 h DE miRNAs are correlated with the late symptoms of aged oocytes. Experimental verification on functions of the key proteins predicted by the KEGG analysis and injection of miR-98 mimics or inhibitors further confirmed that miRNAs played stimulatory/inhibitory roles in postovulatory oocyte aging. In conclusion, marked changes in miRNA expression are associated with significant alterations in function and morphology of postovulatory aging oocytes.	aging;microRNA;molecular function;oocyte;signaling pathway
Expression of miR-15/107 family microRNAs in human tissues and cultured rat brain cells	W. X. Wang, et al.	2014	24480177	The miR-15/107 family comprises a group of 10 paralogous microRNAs (miRNAs), sharing a 5' AGCAGC sequence. These miRNAs have overlapping targets. In order to characterize the expression of miR-15/107 family miRNAs, we employed customized TaqMan Low-Density micro-fluid PCR-array to investigate the expression of miR-15/107 family members, and other selected miRNAs, in 11 human tissues obtained at autopsy including the cerebral cortex, frontal cortex, primary visual cortex, thalamus, heart, lung, liver, kidney, spleen, stomach and skeletal muscle. miR-103, miR-195 and miR-497 were expressed at similar levels across various tissues, whereas miR-107 is enriched in brain samples. We also examined the expression patterns of evolutionarily conserved miR-15/107 miRNAs in three distinct primary rat brain cell preparations (enriched for cortical neurons, astrocytes and microglia, respectively). In primary cultures of rat brain cells, several members of the miR-15/107 family are enriched in neurons compared to other cell types in the central nervous system (CNS). In addition to mature miRNAs, we also examined the expression of precursors (pri-miRNAs). Our data suggested a generally poor correlation between the expression of mature miRNAs and their precursors. In summary, we provide a detailed study of the tissue and cell type-specific expression profile of this highly expressed and phylogenetically conserved family of miRNA genes.	Animals;Brain/ metabolism;Cells, Cultured;Cluster Analysis;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Microglia/metabolism;Neurons/metabolism;Rats;Normalization;Target prediction;miR-15;miR-16;miR-424;miR-503
A Customized Quantitative PCR MicroRNA Panel Provides a Technically Robust Context for Studying Neurodegenerative Disease Biomarkers and Indicates a High Correlation Between Cerebrospinal Fluid and Choroid Plexus MicroRNA Expression	W. X. Wang, et al.	2016	27900678	MicroRNA (miRNA) expression varies in association with different tissue types and in diseases. Having been found in body fluids including blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), miRNAs constitute potential biomarkers. CSF miRNAs have been proposed as biomarkers for neurodegenerative diseases; however, there is a lack of consensus about the best candidate miRNA biomarkers and there has been variability in results from different research centers, perhaps due to technical factors. Here, we sought to optimize technical parameters for CSF miRNA studies. We examined different RNA isolation methods and performed miRNA expression profiling with TaqMan(R) miRNA Arrays. More specifically, we developed a customized CSF-miRNA low-density array (TLDA) panel that contains 47 targets: miRNAs shown previously to be relevant to neurodegenerative disease, miRNAs that are abundant in CSF, data normalizers, and controls for potential blood and tissue contamination. The advantages of using this CSF-miRNA TLDA panel include specificity, sensitivity, fast processing and data analysis, and cost effectiveness. We optimized technical parameters for this assay. Further, the TLDA panel can be tailored to other specific purposes. We tested whether the profile of miRNAs in the CSF resembled miRNAs isolated from brain tissue (hippocampus or cerebellum), blood, or the choroid plexus. We found that the CSF miRNA expression profile most closely resembles that of choroid plexus tissue, underscoring the potential importance of choroid plexus-derived signaling through CSF miRNAs. In summary, the TLDA miRNA array panel will enable evaluation and discovery of CSF miRNA biomarkers and can potentially be utilized in clinical diagnosis and disease stage monitoring.	Biofluid;Biomarker;Cerebrospinal fluid;Choroid plexus;MicroRNA;Neurodegenerative disease
Patterns of microRNA expression in normal and early Alzheimer's disease human temporal cortex: white matter versus gray matter	W. X. Wang, et al.	2011	20936480	MicroRNA (miRNA) expression was assessed in human cerebral cortical gray matter (GM) and white matter (WM) in order to provide the first insights into the difference between GM and WM miRNA repertoires across a range of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. RNA was isolated separately from GM and WM portions of superior and middle temporal cerebral cortex (N = 10 elderly females, postmortem interval < 4 h). miRNA profiling experiments were performed using state-of-the-art Exiqon((c)) LNA-microarrays. A subset of miRNAs that appeared to be strongly expressed according to the microarrays did not appear to be conventional miRNAs according to Northern blot analyses. Some well-characterized miRNAs were substantially enriched in WM as expected. However, most of the miRNA expression variability that correlated with the presence of early AD-related pathology was seen in GM. We confirm that downregulation of a set of miRNAs in GM (including several miR-15/107 genes and miR-29 paralogs) correlated strongly with the density of diffuse amyloid plaques detected in adjacent tissue. A few miRNAs were differentially expressed in WM, including miR-212 that is downregulated in AD and miR-424 which is upregulated in AD. The expression of certain miRNAs correlates with other miRNAs across different cases, and particular subsets of miRNAs are coordinately expressed in relation to AD-related pathology. These data support the hypothesis that patterns of miRNA expression in cortical GM may contribute to AD pathogenetically, because the aggregate change in miRNA expression observed early in the disease would be predicted to cause profound changes in gene expression.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/ pathology;Amyloid beta-Peptides/metabolism;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Nerve Fibers, Myelinated/ metabolism/pathology;Nerve Tissue/metabolism/ pathology;Neurofibrillary Tangles/pathology;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Postmortem Changes;Statistics as Topic;Temporal Lobe/ pathology
The expression of microRNA miR-107 decreases early in Alzheimer's disease and may accelerate disease progression through regulation of beta-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme 1	W. X. Wang, et al.	2008	18234899	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small regulatory RNAs that participate in posttranscriptional gene regulation in a sequence-specific manner. However, little is understood about the role(s) of miRNAs in Alzheimer's disease (AD). We used miRNA expression microarrays on RNA extracted from human brain tissue from the University of Kentucky Alzheimer's Disease Center Brain Bank with near-optimal clinicopathological correlation. Cases were separated into four groups: elderly nondemented with negligible AD-type pathology, nondemented with incipient AD pathology, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) with moderate AD pathology, and AD. Among the AD-related miRNA expression changes, miR-107 was exceptional because miR-107 levels decreased significantly even in patients with the earliest stages of pathology. In situ hybridization with cross-comparison to neuropathology demonstrated that particular cerebral cortical laminas involved by AD pathology exhibit diminished neuronal miR-107 expression. Computational analysis predicted that the 3'-untranslated region (UTR) of beta-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) mRNA is targeted multiply by miR-107. From the same RNA material analyzed on miRNA microarrays, mRNA expression profiling was performed using Affymetrix Exon Array microarrays on nondemented, MCI, and AD patients. BACE1 mRNA levels tended to increase as miR-107 levels decreased in the progression of AD. Cell culture reporter assays performed with a subset of the predicted miR-107 binding sites indicate the presence of at least one physiological miR-107 miRNA recognition sequence in the 3'-UTR of BACE1 mRNA. Together, the coordinated application of miRNA profiling, Affymetrix microarrays, new bioinformatics predictions, in situ hybridization, and biochemical validation indicate that miR-107 may be involved in accelerated disease progression through regulation of BACE1.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ enzymology/ genetics/pathology;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/genetics/ metabolism/physiology;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/genetics/ metabolism/physiology;Disease Progression;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/ genetics;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics/physiology;Time Factors
Role of mitochondria in regulating microRNA activity and its relevance to the central nervous system	W. X. Wang and J. E. Springer	2015	26330811		
Mitochondria and microRNA crosstalk in traumatic brain injury	W. X. Wang, et al.	2017	26925707	Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a leading cause of long-term impairments in higher cognitive functioning, including deficits in attention and memory. It is well known that some of these persistent deficits are related, in part, to ongoing secondary injury events characterized by pervasive biochemical and pathophysiological stressors, including a rapid and sustained phase of mitochondrial dysfunction. A loss of mitochondrial function impacts a number of important cellular events and we have begun to investigate the novel hypothesis that mitochondria play a critical role in regulating the cellular activity of specific microRNAs in response to cellular demands and stressors. In this special issue report, we summarize briefly the rationale for investigating the crosstalk between mitochondria and microRNA, and provide recent preliminary data suggesting that mitochondria-microRNA interactions are modified in response to TBI-related cellular stressors. We postulate that this interaction is critical for regulating appropriate cellular microRNA responses, which opens up opportunities for therapeutic interventions targeting both mitochondrial function and microRNA activity.	Glutamate excitotoxicity;Mitochondrial function;Oxidative damage;Traumatic brain injury
Mitochondria-associated microRNAs in rat hippocampus following traumatic brain injury	W. X. Wang, et al.	2015	25562527	Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a major cause of death and disability. However, the molecular events contributing to the pathogenesis are not well understood. Mitochondria serve as the powerhouse of cells, respond to cellular demands and stressors, and play an essential role in cell signaling, differentiation, and survival. There is clear evidence of compromised mitochondrial function following TBI; however, the underlying mechanisms and consequences are not clear. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNA molecules that regulate gene expression post-transcriptionally, and function as important mediators of neuronal development, synaptic plasticity, and neurodegeneration. Several miRNAs show altered expression following TBI; however, the relevance of mitochondria in these pathways is unknown. Here, we present evidence supporting the association of miRNA with hippocampal mitochondria, as well as changes in mitochondria-associated miRNA expression following a controlled cortical impact (CCI) injury in rats. Specifically, we found that the miRNA processing proteins Argonaute (AGO) and Dicer are present in mitochondria fractions from uninjured rat hippocampus, and immunoprecipitation of AGO associated miRNA from mitochondria suggests the presence of functional RNA-induced silencing complexes. Interestingly, RT-qPCR miRNA array studies revealed that a subset of miRNA is enriched in mitochondria relative to cytoplasm. At 12h following CCI, several miRNAs are significantly altered in hippocampal mitochondria and cytoplasm. In addition, levels of miR-155 and miR-223, both of which play a role in inflammatory processes, are significantly elevated in both cytoplasm and mitochondria. We propose that mitochondria-associated miRNAs may play an important role in regulating the response to TBI.	Animals;Brain Injuries/ metabolism/pathology;Cells, Cultured;Cytoplasm/metabolism/pathology;Hippocampus/ metabolism/pathology;Male;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Mitochondria/ metabolism;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Controlled cortical impact;Hippocampus;Inflammation;MiR-142-3p;MiR-142-5p;MiR-146a;MiR-150;MiR-155;MiR-223;MicroRNA;Mitochondria;Traumatic brain injury
Focus on RNA isolation: obtaining RNA for microRNA (miRNA) expression profiling analyses of neural tissue	W. X. Wang, et al.	2008	18316046	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are present in all known plant and animal tissues and appear to be somewhat concentrated in the mammalian nervous system. Many different miRNA expression profiling platforms have been described. However, relatively little research has been published to establish the importance of 'upstream' variables in RNA isolation for neural miRNA expression profiling. We tested whether apparent changes in miRNA expression profiles may be associated with tissue processing, RNA isolation techniques, or different cell types in the sample. RNA isolation was performed on a single brain sample using eight different RNA isolation methods, and results were correlated using a conventional miRNA microarray and then cross-referenced to Northern blots. Differing results were seen between samples obtained using different RNA isolation techniques and between microarray and Northern blot results. Another complication of miRNA microarrays is tissue-level heterogeneity of cellular composition. To investigate this phenomenon, miRNA expression profiles were determined and compared between highly-purified primary cerebral cortical cell preparations of rat primary E15-E18 neurons versus rat primary E15-E18 astrocytes. Finally, to assess the importance of dissecting human brain gray matter from subjacent white matter in cerebral cortical studies, miRNA expression profiles were compared between gray matter and immediately contiguous white matter. The results suggest that for microarray studies, cellular composition is important, and dissecting white matter from gray matter improves the specificity of the results. Based on these data, recommendations for miRNA expression profiling in neural tissues, and considerations worthy of further study, are discussed.	Aged, 80 and over;Animals;Astrocytes/metabolism;Blotting, Northern;Cells, Cultured;Cerebral Cortex/cytology;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ isolation & purification/metabolism;Molecular Biology/ methods;Nerve Tissue/ metabolism;Neurons/metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Rats
miR-107 regulates granulin/progranulin with implications for traumatic brain injury and neurodegenerative disease	W. X. Wang, et al.	2010	20489155	Granulin (GRN, or progranulin) is a protein involved in wound repair, inflammation, and neoplasia. GRN has also been directly implicated in frontotemporal dementia and may contribute to Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis. However, GRN regulation expression is poorly understood. A high-throughput experimental microRNA assay showed that GRN is the strongest target for miR-107 in human H4 neuroglioma cells. miR-107 has been implicated in Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis, and sequence elements in the open reading frame-rather than the 3' untranslated region-of GRN mRNA are recognized by miR-107 and are highly conserved among vertebrate species. To better understand the mechanism of this interaction, FLAG-tagged Argonaute constructs were used following miR-107 transfection. GRN mRNA interacts preferentially with Argonaute 2. In vitro and in vivo studies indicate that regulation of GRN by miR-107 may be functionally important. Glucose supplementation in cultured cells that leads to increased miR-107 levels also results in decreased GRN expression, including changes in cell compartmentation and decreased secretion of GRN protein. This effect was eliminated following miR-107 transfection. We also tested a mouse model where miR-107 has been shown to be down-regulated. In brain tissue subjacent to 1.0 mm depth controlled cortical impact, surviving hippocampal neurons show decreased miR-107 with augmentation of neuronal GRN expression. These findings indicate that miR-107 contributes to GRN expression regulation with implications for brain disorders.	Animals;Argonaute Proteins;Base Sequence;Brain/anatomy & histology/metabolism/pathology;Brain Injuries/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Cells, Cultured;Eukaryotic Initiation Factors/genetics/metabolism;Glucose/metabolism;Humans;Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Microarray Analysis;Neurodegenerative Diseases/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Sequence Alignment
Sorting nexin 27 regulates Abeta production through modulating gamma-secretase activity	X. Wang, et al.	2014	25437557	Patients with Down syndrome (DS) invariably develop Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology in their 40s. We have recently found that overexpression of a chromosome 21-encoded microRNA-155 results in decreased levels of the membrane trafficking component, SNX27, diminishing glutamate receptor recycling and thereby impairing synaptic functions in DS. Here, we report a function of SNX27 in regulating beta-amyloid (Abeta) generation by modulating gamma-secretase activity. Downregulation of SNX27 using RNAi increased Abeta production, whereas overexpression of full-length SNX27, but not SNX27DeltaPDZ, reversed the RNAi-mediated Abeta elevation. Moreover, genetic deletion of Snx27 promoted Abeta production and neuronal loss, whereas overexpression of SNX27 using an adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector reduced hippocampal Abeta levels in a transgenic AD mouse model. SNX27 associates with the gamma-secretase complex subunit presenilin 1; this interaction dissociates the gamma-secretase complex, thus decreasing its proteolytic activity. Our study establishes a molecular mechanism for Abeta-dependent pathogenesis in both DS and AD.	Alzheimer Disease/metabolism/pathology;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/ metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ biosynthesis;Animals;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Deletion;HEK293 Cells;HeLa Cells;Humans;Mice, Transgenic;Models, Biological;Neurons/metabolism/pathology;Presenilin-1/metabolism;Protein Binding;Protein Subunits/metabolism;Receptors, Notch/metabolism;Sorting Nexins/ metabolism
miR-34a, a microRNA up-regulated in a double transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease, inhibits bcl2 translation	X. Wang, et al.	2009	19683563	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short noncoding regulatory RNA molecules that modulate protein expression by inhibiting mRNA translation or promoting mRNA degradation. However, little is understood about the roles of miRNAs in Alzheimer's disease. During a research for miRNAs that are differentially expressed in cerebral cortex of APPswe/PSDeltaE9 mice (a model for Alzheimer's disease) and age-matched controls, one candidate miRNA that is relatively highly expressed, miR-34a, was studied further because sequence analysis suggested a likely interaction with the 3'-untranslated region of bcl2 mRNA. We show that the expression of miR-34a is inversely correlated with the protein level of bcl2 in APPswe/PSDeltaE9 mice and age-matched controls, and miR-34a expression directly inhibits bcl2 translation in SH-SY5Y cells. No effect on bcl2 mRNA level was observed. Western blot analysis of active caspase-3 showed higher levels in APPswe/PSDeltaE9 mice and stable transfecant cell line of miR-34a than in controls. Consistently, miR-34a knockdown through antisense LNA oligonucleotides increased the level of bcl2 protein in SH-SY5Y cells, which was accompanied by a decrease of active caspase-3. These findings suggested that bcl2 is an important functional target for miR-34a, and the abnormal expression of miR-34a may contribute to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, at least in part by affecting the expression of bcl2.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/genetics;Animals;Apoptosis;Blotting, Western;Caspase 3/metabolism;Cells, Cultured;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Microarray Analysis;Presenilin-1/genetics;Protein Biosynthesis/ genetics;Proto-Oncogene Proteins/ biosynthesis;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction
MicroRNA-138 promotes tau phosphorylation by targeting retinoic acid receptor alpha	X. Wang, et al.	2015	25680531	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative dementia characterized by Abeta deposition and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) composed of hyperphosphorylated tau. Emerging evidence shows that microRNAs (miRNAs) contribute to the pathogenesis of AD. Herein, we investigated the role of miR-138, a brain enriched miRNA, which is increased in AD patients. We found that miR-138 is increased in AD models, including N2a/APP and HEK293/tau cell lines. Overexpression of miR-138 activates glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta), and increases tau phosphorylation in HEK293/tau cells. Furthermore, we confirm that retinoic acid receptor alpha (RARA) is a direct target of miR-138, and supplement of RARA substantially suppresses GSK-3beta activity, and reduces tau phosphorylation induced by miR-138. In conclusion, our data suggest that miR-138 promotes tau phosphorylation by targeting the RARA/GSK-3beta pathway.	Alzheimer Disease/metabolism;Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Gene Expression;HEK293 Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Phosphorylation;Protein Processing, Post-Translational;RNA Interference;Receptors, Retinoic Acid/ genetics/metabolism;Retinoic Acid Receptor alpha;tau Proteins/ metabolism;Alzheimer's disease;Glycogen synthase kinase-3beta;Tau;miR-138
Downregulated microRNA-222 is correlated with increased p27Kip(1) expression in a double transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease	X. Wang, et al.	2015	26398571	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a group of endogenous non-coding small RNAs that regulate protein expression by binding to the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of target genes. miRNAs are abundantly expressed in the central nervous system and participate in neuronal differentiation and synaptic plasticity. However, the possible roles and associated target genes of miRNAs in Alzheimer's disease (AD) are largely unknown. In the current study, miR222 was observed to be downregulated in APPswe/PSDeltaE9 mice (a model for AD) compared with agematched controls. Furthermore, the downregulation of miR222 was correlated with increased p27Kip1 protein levels. Bioinformatic analysis showed that there was one highlyconserved putative binding site for miR222 in the 3'UTR of p27Kip1. Luciferase reporter assays confirmed that p27Kip1 was a direct target of miR222. Consistently, there was an inverse correlation between p27Kip1 and miR222 expression levels in SHSY5Y cells. In conclusion, these results suggest that the abnormal expression of miR222 may contribute to dysregulation of the cellcycle in AD, at least in part by affecting the expression of p27Kip1.	3' Untranslated Regions;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics;Animals;Cell Line;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p27/ genetics;Disease Models, Animal;Down-Regulation;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Up-Regulation
Loss of sorting nexin 27 contributes to excitatory synaptic dysfunction by modulating glutamate receptor recycling in Down's syndrome	X. Wang, et al.	2013	23524343	Sorting nexin 27 (SNX27), a brain-enriched PDZ domain protein, regulates endocytic sorting and trafficking. Here we show that Snx27(-/-) mice have severe neuronal deficits in the hippocampus and cortex. Although Snx27(+/-) mice have grossly normal neuroanatomy, we found defects in synaptic function, learning and memory and a reduction in the amounts of ionotropic glutamate receptors (NMDA and AMPA receptors) in these mice. SNX27 interacts with these receptors through its PDZ domain, regulating their recycling to the plasma membrane. We demonstrate a concomitant reduced expression of SNX27 and CCAAT/enhancer binding protein beta (C/EBPbeta) in Down's syndrome brains and identify C/EBPbeta as a transcription factor for SNX27. Down's syndrome causes overexpression of miR-155, a chromosome 21-encoded microRNA that negatively regulates C/EBPbeta, thereby reducing SNX27 expression and resulting in synaptic dysfunction. Upregulating SNX27 in the hippocampus of Down's syndrome mice rescues synaptic and cognitive deficits. Our identification of the role of SNX27 in synaptic function establishes a new molecular mechanism of Down's syndrome pathogenesis.	Animals;Antineoplastic Combined Chemotherapy Protocols;C-Reactive Protein/physiology;CCAAT-Enhancer-Binding Protein-beta;CCAAT-Enhancer-Binding Proteins/physiology;Cerebral Cortex/cytology/physiopathology;Cisplatin;Down Syndrome/ physiopathology;Down-Regulation;Female;Hippocampus/cytology/physiopathology;Humans;Ifosfamide;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/physiology;Mitomycin;Nerve Tissue Proteins/physiology;Receptors, Glutamate/ metabolism;Sorting Nexins/ physiology;Synapses/ physiology;Transcription Factors/physiology
Transcriptional profiling and dynamical regulation analysis identify potential kernel target genes of SCYL1-BP1 in HEK293T cells	Y. Wang, et al.	2014	25234469	SCYL1-BP1 is thought to function in the p53 pathway through Mdm2 and hPirh2, and mutations in SCYL1-BP1 are associated with premature aging syndromes such as Geroderma Osteodysplasticum; however, these mechanisms are unclear. Here, we report significant alterations in miRNA expression levels when SCYL1-BP1 expression was inhibited by RNA interference in HEK293T cells. We functionally characterized the effects of potential kernel miRNA-target genes by miRNA-target network and protein-protein interaction network analysis. Importantly, we showed the diminished SCYL1-BP1 dramatically reduced the expression levels of EEA1, BMPR2 and BRCA2 in HEK293T cells. Thus, we infer that SCYL1-BP1 plays a critical function in HEK293T cell development and directly regulates miRNA-target genes, including, but not limited to, EEA1, BMPR2, and BRCA2, suggesting a new strategy for investigating the molecular mechanism of SCYL1-BP1.	BRCA2 Protein/genetics/metabolism;Bone Morphogenetic Protein Receptors, Type II/genetics/metabolism;Carrier Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Knockdown Techniques;HEK293 Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs;RNA Interference;Reproducibility of Results;Vesicular Transport Proteins/genetics/metabolism;HEK293T cells;Scyl1-bp1;knockdown;microRNA;network
Differentially expressed microRNAs in bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell-derived microvesicles in young and older rats and their effect on tumor growth factor-beta1-mediated epithelial-mesenchymal transition in HK2 cells	Y. Wang, et al.	2015	26415502	INTRODUCTION: The prevalence of renal fibrosis is higher in older than in younger individuals. Through paracrine activity, bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell-derived microvesicles (BM-MSC-MVs) influence the process of renal fibrosis. Differences in microRNA (miRNA) expression of BM-MSC-MVs that correlate with the age of the subjects and the correlation between miRNA expression and the process of renal fibrosis have not been established. The present study aimed to analyze differences in miRNA expression of BM-MSC-MVs between young or older rats and its influence on tumor growth factor-beta 1 (TGF-beta1)-mediated epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of HK2 cells to explore the causes of renal fibrosis in aged tissues. METHODS: miRCURY LNA Array (version 18.0) was used to identify differentially expressed miRNAs in BM-MSC-MVs of 3- and 24-month-old Fisher344 rats. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction was used to verify miRNA levels in BM-MSC-MVs and in the serum of rats. A TGF-beta1-mediated EMT model was used to study the effects of BM-MSC-MVs and differentially expressed miRNAs on EMT. RESULTS: BM-MSCs from older rats showed more severe aging phenotypes compared with those of young rats. In addition, the growth rate and cell migration of BM-MSCs derived from older rats were significantly reduced. In secreted BM-MSC-MVs, the expression of miR-344a, miR-133b-3p, miR-294, miR-423-3p, and miR-872-3p was significantly downregulated in older rats than in younger rats (P < 0.05), and the serum level of these miRNAs exhibited the same patterns. Intervention using BM-MSC-MVs resulted in the weakening of TGF-beta1-mediated EMT in the aged rats. MiR-344a, miR-133b-3p, and miR-294 affected TGF-beta1-mediated EMT in HK2 cells. Among these, miR-133b-3p and miR-294 significantly inhibited TGF-beta1-mediated EMT in HK2 cells (P < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: In older rats, the inhibitory effect of BM-MSC-MVs on TGF-beta1-mediated HK2 cell EMT was weaker than that observed in younger rats. In addition, miR-133b-3p and miR-294, which were downregulated in BM-MSC-MVs of older rats, remarkably inhibited TGF-beta1-mediated EMT in HK2 cells, suggesting that these may play a role in the fibrosis of aging renal tissues.	Aging;Animals;Cell Line;Cell Movement;Cell Proliferation;Cell-Derived Microparticles/ physiology;Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition;Gene Expression;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ physiology;MicroRNAs/ blood/genetics;Rats;Rats, Inbred F344;Transforming Growth Factor beta1/ physiology
MicroRNA-204-5p regulates epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition during human posterior capsule opacification by targeting SMAD4	Y. Wang, et al.	2013	23221074	PURPOSE: To investigate the role of microRNA (miRNA) in regulating epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) during human posterior capsule opacification (PCO). METHODS: A miRCURY LNA microRNA array was used to evaluate the miRNA profiles of human PCO tissues and normal attached lens epithelial cells (LECs). An in vitro human donor capsular bag model was used to investigate the role of miRNAs in the EMT during PCO. The expression of SMAD4, phospho-SMAD2/3, and a panel of EMT markers was detected by Western blot and quantitative RT-PCR. RESULTS: The results of miRNA profiling in human PCO tissues and normal attached LECs demonstrated that, among other miRNAs, miR-204-5p expression was down-regulated. Using bioinformatics, we identified SMAD4, one of the mediators of TGF-beta/SMAD signaling, as a predicted target of miR-204-5p. Overexpression of miR-204-5p in primary LECs increased E-cadherin expression and decreased the expression of vimentin and alpha smooth muscle actin. Furthermore, miR-204-5p overexpression enhanced the repression of TGF-beta2-induced EMT in the presence of SMAD4 small interfering RNA. CONCLUSIONS: Our data provide firm evidence of a role for miR-204-5p in the direct regulation of EMT through its targeting of SMAD4 and, consequently, TGF-beta signaling. Because of its ability to repress the EMT, miR-204-5p may be a novel target for PCO therapeutic intervention.	Blotting, Western;Capsule Opacification/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Cells, Cultured;Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Immunohistochemistry;Lens Capsule, Crystalline/ metabolism/pathology;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;RNA/ genetics;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction/genetics;Smad4 Protein/biosynthesis/ genetics
MicroRNA regulation of ionizing radiation-induced premature senescence	Y. Wang, et al.	2011	21093163	PURPOSE: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as critical regulators of many cellular pathways. Ionizing radiation (IR) exposure causes DNA damage and induces premature senescence. However, the role of miRNAs in IR-induced senescence has not been well defined. Thus, the purpose of this study was to identify and characterize senescence-associated miRNAs (SA-miRNAs) and to investigate the role of SA-miRNAs in IR-induced senescence. METHODS AND MATERIALS: In human lung (WI-38) fibroblasts, premature senescence was induced either by IR or busulfan (BU) treatment, and replicative senescence was accomplished by serial passaging. MiRNA microarray were used to identify SA-miRNAs, and real-time reverse transcription (RT)-PCR validated the expression profiles of SA-miRNAs in various senescent cells. The role of SA-miRNAs in IR-induced senescence was characterized by knockdown of miRNA expression, using anti-miRNA oligonucleotides or by miRNA overexpression through the transfection of pre-miRNA mimics. RESULTS: We identified eight SA-miRNAs, four of which were up-regulated (miR-152, -410, -431, and -493) and four which were down-regulated (miR-155, -20a, -25, and -15a), that are differentially expressed in both prematurely senescent (induced by IR or BU) and replicatively senescent WI-38 cells. Validation of the expression of these SA-miRNAs indicated that down-regulation of miR-155, -20a, -25, and -15a is a characteristic miRNA expression signature of cellular senescence. Functional analyses revealed that knockdown of miR-155 or miR-20a, but not miR-25 or miR-15a, markedly enhanced IR-induced senescence, whereas ectopic overexpression of miR-155 or miR-20a significantly inhibited senescence induction. Furthermore, our studies indicate that miR-155 modulates IR-induced senescence by acting downstream of the p53 and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathways and in part via regulating tumor protein 53-induced nuclear protein 1 (TP53INP1) expression. CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that SA-miRNAs are involved in the regulation of IR-induced senescence, so targeting these miRNAs may be a novel approach for modulating cellular response to radiation exposure.	Busulfan;Cell Aging/ genetics/radiation effects;Cell Line;DNA Damage;Down-Regulation;Fibroblasts/drug effects/physiology/radiation effects;Gene Silencing;Humans;MicroRNAs/analysis/ physiology;Microarray Analysis;Neoplasms/radiotherapy;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction/methods;Up-Regulation
Downregulation of miR-132/212 impairs S-nitrosylation balance and induces tau phosphorylation in Alzheimer's disease	Y. Wang, et al.	2017	28089352	MicroRNA-132 is markedly downregulated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related tauopathies, and its levels are closely associated with tau pathology in AD. Whether and how miR-132 contributes to pathology in these neurodegenerative diseases remains unclear. Here, we show that miR-132 and its paralogue miR-212 directly regulate the expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (NOS1) through the primate-specific binding site. Inhibition of miR-132 in primary human neurons and neural cells leads to increased NOS1 levels and triggers excessive production of nitric oxide, followed by aberrant S-nitrosylation (SNO) of specific proteins associated with neurodegeneration and tau pathology, such as cyclin-dependent kinase 5, dynamin-related protein 1, and glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase. This, in turn, increases tau phosphorylation at disease associated Ser396, Ser404, and Ser202 sites, and impairs neural viability. Our findings indicate that downregulation of miR-132/212 disturbs the balance of S-nitrosylation and induces tau phosphorylation in a NOS1-dependent way, and thereby may contribute to the pathogenesis of AD and other tauopathies.	Alzheimer's disease;MicroRNA;Nos1;Neuron;S-Nitrosylation;Tau phosphorylation
The QKI-5 and QKI-6 RNA binding proteins regulate the expression of microRNA 7 in glial cells	Y. Wang, et al.	2013	23319046	The quaking (qkI) gene encodes 3 major alternatively spliced isoforms that contain unique sequences at their C termini dictating their cellular localization. QKI-5 is predominantly nuclear, whereas QKI-6 is distributed throughout the cell and QKI-7 is cytoplasmic. The QKI isoforms are sequence-specific RNA binding proteins expressed mainly in glial cells modulating RNA splicing, export, and stability. Herein, we identify a new role for the QKI proteins in the regulation of microRNA (miRNA) processing. We observed that small interfering RNA (siRNA)-mediated QKI depletion of U343 glioblastoma cells leads to a robust increase in miR-7 expression. The processing from primary to mature miR-7 was inhibited in the presence QKI-5 and QKI-6 but not QKI-7, suggesting that the nuclear localization plays an important role in the regulation of miR-7 expression. The primary miR-7-1 was bound by the QKI isoforms in a QKI response element (QRE)-specific manner. We observed that the pri-miR-7-1 RNA was tightly bound to Drosha in the presence of the QKI isoforms, and this association was not observed in siRNA-mediated QKI or Drosha-depleted U343 glioblastoma cells. Moreover, the presence of the QKI isoforms led to an increase presence of pri-miR-7 in nuclear foci, suggesting that pri-miR-7-1 is retained in the nucleus by the QKI isoforms. miR-7 is known to target the epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor (EGFR) 3' untranslated region (3'-UTR), and indeed, QKI-deficient U343 cells had reduced EGFR expression and decreased ERK activation in response to EGF. Elevated levels of miR-7 are associated with cell cycle arrest, and it was observed that QKI-deficient U343 that harbor elevated levels of miR-7 exhibited defects in cell proliferation that were partially rescued by the addition of a miR-7 inhibitor. These findings suggest that the QKI isoforms regulate glial cell function and proliferation by regulating the processing of certain miRNAs.	Cell Growth Processes/physiology;Cell Line;Cell Nucleus/genetics/metabolism;Epidermal Growth Factor/genetics/metabolism;HEK293 Cells;Humans;MAP Kinase Signaling System/genetics;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;Neuroglia/metabolism/ physiology;Protein Binding;Protein Isoforms;RNA-Binding Proteins/ genetics/ metabolism;Receptor, Epidermal Growth Factor/genetics/metabolism;Ribonuclease III/genetics/metabolism
Comprehensive circular RNA profiling reveals that circular RNA100783 is involved in chronic CD28-associated CD8(+)T cell ageing	Y. H. Wang, et al.	2015	26451160	BACKGROUND: Ageing brings about the gradual deterioration of the immune system, also known as immunosenescence. The role of non-coding circular RNA in immunosenescence is under studied. Using circular RNA microarray data, we assembled Comparison groups (C1, C2, C3 and C4) that allowed us to compare the circular RNA expression profiles between CD28(+)CD8(+) T cells and CD28(-)CD8(+) T cells isolated from healthy elderly or adult control subjects. Using a step-wise biomathematical strategy, the differentially-expressed circRNAs were identified in C1 (CD28(+)CD8(+) vs CD28(-)CD8(+)T cells in the elderly) and C4 (CD28(-)CD8(+)T cells in the elderly vs in the adult), and the commonly-expressed circRNA species from these profiles were optimized as immunosenescence biomarkers. RESULTS: Four overlapping upregulated circular RNAs (100550, 100783, 101328 and 102592) expressed in cross-comparison between C1 and C4 were validated using quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Of these, only circular RNA100783 exhibited significant validation. None of the down-regulated circular RNAs were expressed in the C1 and the C4 cross-comparisons. Therefore, we further predicted circular RNA100783-targeted miRNA-gene interactions using online DAVID annotation. The analysis revealed that a circular RNA100783-targeted miRNA-mRNA network may be involved in alternative splicing, the production of splice variants, and in the regulation of phosphoprotein expression. Considering the hypothesis of splicing-related biogenesis of circRNAs, we propose that circular RNA100783 may play a role in phosphoprotein-associated functions duringCD28-related CD8(+) T cell ageing. CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to employ circular RNA profiling to investigate circular RNA-micro RNA interactions in ageing human CD8(+)T cell populations and the accompanying loss of CD28 expression. The overlapping expression of circular RNA100783 may represent a novel biomarker for the longitudinal tracking ofCD28-related CD8(+) T cell ageing and global immunosenescence.	Ageing;Biomathematics;Cd28;Circular RNA;Microarray;T cell
MicroRNA: A matter of life or death	Z. Wang	2010	21537368	Progressive cell loss due to apoptosis is a pathological hallmark implicated in a wide spectrum of degenerative diseases such as heart disease, atherosclerotic arteries and hypertensive vessels, Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders. Tremendous efforts have been made to improve our understanding of the molecular mechanisms and signaling pathways involved in apoptosistic cell death. Once ignored completely or overlooked as cellular detritus, microRNAs (miRNAs) that were discovered only a decade ago, have recently taken many by surprise. The importance of miRNAs has steadily gained appreciation and miRNA biology has exploded into a massive swell of interest with enormous range and potential in almost every biological discipline because of their widespread expression and diverse functions in both animals and humans. It has been established that miRNAs are critical regulators of apoptosis of various cell types. These small molecules act by repressing the expression of either the proapoptotic or antiapoptotic genes to produce antiapoptotic or proapoptotic effects. Appealing evidence has been accumulating for the involvement of miRNAs in human diseases associated with apoptotic cell death and the potential of miRNAs as novel therapeutic targets for the treatment of the diseases. This editorial aims to convey this message and to boost up the research interest by providing a timely, comprehensive overview on regulation of apoptosis by miRNAs and a synopsis on the pathophysiologic implications of this novel regulatory network based on the currently available data in the literature. It begins with a brief introduction to apoptosis and miRNAs, followed by the description of the fundamental aspects of miRNA biogenesis and action, and the role of miRNAs in regulating apoptosis of cancer cells and cardiovascular cells. Speculations on the development of miRNAs as potential therapeutic targets are also presented. Remarks are also provided to point out the unanswered questions and to outline the new directions for the future research of the field.	Apoptosis;Cancer;Cardiomyocytes;Vascular;microRNA
Expression and Functional Analysis of a Novel Group of Legume-specific WRKY and Exo70 Protein Variants from Soybean	Z. Wang, et al.	2016	27572297	Legumes fix atmospheric nitrogen through symbiosis with microorganisms and contain special traits in nitrogen assimilation and associated processes. Recently, we have reported a novel WRKY-related protein (GmWRP1) and a new clade of Exo70 proteins (GmExo70J) from soybean with homologs found only in legumes. GmWRP1 and some of the GmExo70J proteins are localized to Golgi apparatus through a novel N-terminal transmembrane domain. Here, we report further analysis of expression and functions of the novel GmWRP1 and GmExo70J genes. Promoter-GUS analysis in Arabidopsis revealed distinct tissue-specific expression patterns of the GmExo70J genes not only in vegetative but also in reproductive organs including mature tissues, where expression of previously characterized Exo70 genes is usually absent. Furthermore, expression of some GmExo70J genes including GmExo70J1, GmExo70J6 and GmExo70J7 increases greatly in floral organ-supporting receptacles during the development and maturation of siliques, indicating a possible role in seed development. More importantly, suppression of GmWRP1, GmExo70J7, GmExo70J8 and GmExo70J9 expression in soybean using virus- or artificial microRNA-mediated gene silencing resulted in accelerated leaf senescence and reduced nodule formation. These results strongly suggest that legume-specific GmWRP1 and GmExo70J proteins play important roles not only in legume symbiosis but also in other processes critical for legume growth and development.	
Regulation of neutrophil senescence by microRNAs	J. R. Ward, et al.	2011	21283524	Neutrophils are rapidly recruited to sites of tissue injury or infection, where they protect against invading pathogens. Neutrophil functions are limited by a process of neutrophil senescence, which renders the cells unable to respond to chemoattractants, carry out respiratory burst, or degranulate. In parallel, aged neutrophils also undergo spontaneous apoptosis, which can be delayed by factors such as GMCSF. This is then followed by their subsequent removal by phagocytic cells such as macrophages, thereby preventing unwanted inflammation and tissue damage. Neutrophils translate mRNA to make new proteins that are important in maintaining functional longevity. We therefore hypothesised that neutrophil functions and lifespan might be regulated by microRNAs expressed within human neutrophils. Total RNA from highly purified neutrophils was prepared and subjected to microarray analysis using the Agilent human miRNA microarray V3. We found human neutrophils expressed a selected repertoire of 148 microRNAs and that 6 of these were significantly upregulated after a period of 4 hours in culture, at a time when the contribution of apoptosis is negligible. A list of predicted targets for these 6 microRNAs was generated from http://mirecords.biolead.org and compared to mRNA species downregulated over time, revealing 83 genes targeted by at least 2 out of the 6 regulated microRNAs. Pathway analysis of genes containing binding sites for these microRNAs identified the following pathways: chemokine and cytokine signalling, Ras pathway, and regulation of the actin cytoskeleton. Our data suggest that microRNAs may play a role in the regulation of neutrophil senescence and further suggest that manipulation of microRNAs might represent an area of future therapeutic interest for the treatment of inflammatory disease.	Actins/genetics;Cell Aging/ genetics;Chemokines/genetics;Computational Biology;Cytokines/genetics;Humans;MicroRNAs/analysis/ physiology;Microarray Analysis;Neutrophils/ cytology;RNA, Messenger/analysis;Signal Transduction/genetics;Time Factors;Up-Regulation;ras Proteins/genetics
Conserved microRNA editing in mammalian evolution, development and disease	M. Warnefors, et al.	2014	24964909	BACKGROUND: Mammalian microRNAs (miRNAs) are sometimes subject to adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing, which can lead to dramatic changes in miRNA target specificity or expression levels. However, although a few miRNAs are known to be edited at identical positions in human and mouse, the evolution of miRNA editing has not been investigated in detail. In this study, we identify conserved miRNA editing events in a range of mammalian and non-mammalian species. RESULTS: We demonstrate deep conservation of several site-specific miRNA editing events, including two that date back to the common ancestor of mammals and bony fishes some 450 million years ago. We also find evidence of a recent expansion of an edited miRNA family in placental mammals and show that editing of these miRNAs is associated with changes in target mRNA expression during primate development and aging. While global patterns of miRNA editing tend to be conserved across species, we observe substantial variation in editing frequencies depending on tissue, age and disease state: editing is more frequent in neural tissues compared to heart, kidney and testis; in older compared to younger individuals; and in samples from healthy tissues compared to tumors, which together suggests that miRNA editing might be associated with a reduced rate of cell proliferation. CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that site-specific miRNA editing is an evolutionarily conserved mechanism, which increases the functional diversity of mammalian miRNA transcriptomes. Furthermore, we find that although miRNA editing is rare compared to editing of long RNAs, miRNAs are greatly overrepresented among conserved editing targets.	Aging/genetics;Animals;Base Sequence;Chickens;Evolution, Molecular;Humans;Macaca;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Neoplasms/genetics;Opossums;Organ Specificity;Platypus;RNA Cleavage;RNA Editing;RNA Interference;Xenopus laevis
The role of microRNA-150 as a tumor suppressor in malignant lymphoma	A. Watanabe, et al.	2011	21502955	MicroRNA (miRNA; miR) is a class of small regulatory RNA molecules, the aberrant expression of which can lead to the development of cancer. We recently reported that overexpression of miR-21 and/or miR-155 leads to activation of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT pathway in malignant lymphomas expressing CD3(-)CD56(+) natural killer (NK) cell antigen. Through expression analysis, we show in this study that in both NK/T-cell lymphoma lines and samples of primary lymphoma, levels of miR-150 expression are significantly lower than in normal NK cells. To examine its role in lymphomagenesis, we transduced miR-150 into NK/T-cell lymphoma cells, which increased the incidence of apoptosis and reduced cell proliferation. Moreover, the miR-150 transductants appeared senescent and showed lower telomerase activity, resulting in shortened telomeric DNA. We also found that miR-150 directly downregulated expression of DKC1 and AKT2, reduced levels of phosphorylated AKT(ser473/4) and increased levels of tumor suppressors such as Bim and p53. Collectively, these results suggest that miR-150 functions as a tumor suppressor, and that its aberrant downregulation induces continuous activation of the PI3K-AKT pathway, leading to telomerase activation and immortalization of cancer cells. These findings provide new insight into the pathogenesis of malignant lymphoma.	Apoptosis;Cell Aging;Cell Cycle Proteins/physiology;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Genes, Tumor Suppressor;Humans;Lymphoma, T-Cell/ genetics/pathology/prevention & control;MicroRNAs/analysis/ physiology;Nuclear Proteins/physiology;Phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinases/physiology;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/genetics;Telomere
MicroRNA Profiling in Aqueous Humor of Individual Human Eyes by Next-Generation Sequencing	T. Wecker, et al.	2016	27064390	PURPOSE: Extracellular microRNAs (miRNAs) in aqueous humor were suggested to have a role in transcellular signaling and may serve as disease biomarkers. The authors adopted next-generation sequencing (NGS) techniques to further characterize the miRNA profile in single samples of 60 to 80 muL human aqueous humor. METHODS: Samples were obtained at the outset of cataract surgery in nine independent, otherwise healthy eyes. Four samples were used to extract RNA and generate sequencing libraries, followed by an adapter-driven amplification step, electrophoretic size selection, sequencing, and data analysis. Five samples were used for quantitative PCR (qPCR) validation of NGS results. Published NGS data on circulating miRNAs in blood were analyzed in comparison. RESULTS: One hundred fifty-eight miRNAs were consistently detected by NGS in all four samples; an additional 59 miRNAs were present in at least three samples. The aqueous humor miRNA profile shows some overlap with published NGS-derived inventories of circulating miRNAs in blood plasma with high prevalence of human miR-451a, -21, and -16. In contrast to blood, miR-184, -4448, -30a, -29a, -29c, -19a, -30d, -205, -24, -22, and -3074 were detected among the 20 most prevalent miRNAs in aqueous humor. Relative expression patterns of miR-451a, -202, and -144 suggested by NGS were confirmed by qPCR. CONCLUSIONS: Our data illustrate the feasibility of miRNA analysis by NGS in small individual aqueous humor samples. Intraocular cells as well as blood plasma contribute to the extracellular aqueous humor miRNome. The data suggest possible roles of miRNA in intraocular cell adhesion and signaling by TGF-beta and Wnt, which are important in intraocular pressure regulation and glaucoma.	Aged;Aqueous Humor/metabolism;Female;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;Gene Expression Regulation;Glaucoma/ genetics/metabolism;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing/ methods;Humans;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;Middle Aged;RNA/ genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Reference Values
miR-34a confers chemosensitivity through modulation of MAGE-A and p53 in medulloblastoma	S. D. Weeraratne, et al.	2011	21177782	Recent studies have established miR-34a as a key effector of the p53 signaling pathway and have implicated its role in multiple cancer types. Here, we establish that miR-34a induces apoptosis, G2 arrest, and senescence in medulloblastoma and renders these cells more sensitive to chemotherapeutic agents. These effects are mediated in part by the direct post-transcriptional repression of the oncogenic MAGE-A gene family. We demonstrate that miR-34a directly targets the 3' untranslated regions of MAGE-A genes and decreases MAGE-A protein levels. This decrease in MAGE-A results in a concomitant increase in p53 and its associated transcriptional targets, p21/WAF1/CIP1 and, importantly, miR-34a. This establishes a positive feedback mechanism where miR-34a is not only induced by p53 but increases p53 mRNA and protein levels through the modulation of MAGE-A genes. Additionally, the forced expression of miR-34a or the knockdown of MAGE-A genes by small interfering RNA similarly sensitizes medulloblastoma cells to several classes of chemotherapeutic agents, including mitomycin C and cisplatin. Finally, the analysis of mRNA and micro-RNA transcriptional profiles of a series of primary medulloblastomas identifies a subset of tumors with low miR-34a expression and correspondingly high MAGE-A expression, suggesting the coordinate regulation of these genes. Our work establishes a role for miR-34a in modulating responsiveness to chemotherapy in medulloblastoma and presents a novel positive feedback mechanism involving miR-34a and p53, via direct targeting of MAGE-A.	Antigens, Neoplasm/genetics/ metabolism;Antineoplastic Agents/ pharmacology;Apoptosis/drug effects;Biomarkers, Tumor/genetics/metabolism;Blotting, Western;Cell Cycle/drug effects;Cell Proliferation/drug effects;Cerebellar Neoplasms/drug therapy/metabolism/pathology;Cisplatin/pharmacology;Drug Resistance, Neoplasm/ genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Immunoenzyme Techniques;Luciferases/metabolism;Medulloblastoma/ drug therapy/ metabolism/pathology;Melanoma-Specific Antigens;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Mitomycin/pharmacology;Neoplasm Proteins/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;RNA, Messenger/genetics;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/ metabolism
Comparative profiling of microRNA expression between neural stem cells and motor neurons in embryonic spinal cord in rat	H. Wei, et al.	2010	20450967	Neural stem cells' transplantation has been proposed as a future therapy for spinal cord injury. The challenge is how to make proportionally more neural stem cells differentiate into spinal motor neurons. Recent reports reveal that microRNAs play an important role in regulating stem cell self-renewal and differentiation. The aim of this study was to compare the profiling of microRNA expression between neural stem cells and motor neurons and to find candidate targets that direct differentiation of neural stem cells into motor neurons. We performed a parallel isolation and purification of motor neurons and neural stem cells from the same rat embryonic spinal cord sample. With the high-throughput TaqMan low-density array platform, 44 differentially expressed microRNAs were identified (22 specially expressed microRNAs in motor neurons and neural stem cells, respectively). Using bioinformatic methods, clustering, transcriptional regulation and target genes of differential microRNAs were analyzed. Furthermore, miR-126 specially expressed in cultured motor neurons identified by TaqMan low-density array was significantly elevated in choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons differentiated from the neural stem cells. These findings suggest that specially expressed microRNAs may contribute to the directed differentiation of neural stem cells into motor neurons and are potential targets for therapeutic interventions following spinal cord injury.	Aging/metabolism;Animals;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Motor Neurons/ metabolism;Neural Stem Cells/ metabolism;Rats;Rats, Wistar;Spinal Cord/ embryology/ metabolism
Functions of miR-9 and miR-9* during Aging in SAMP8 Mice and Their Possible Mechanisms	L. Wei, et al.	2015	26149132	OBJECTIVE: To explore the functions of miR-9 and miR-9(*) in SAMP8 mice during the aging and their possible mechanisms. METHODS: SAMP8 mice(4-,8-,12-month old,respectively)were selected,three age-matched SAMR1 mice were used as the control group with three mice in each group. The brains were collected and then sectioned for in situ hybridization of miR-9 and miR-9(*). Mimics or inhibitors of miR-9 and miR-9(*) were transfected into N2a cells,and the effects of overexpression or knockdown of the microRNAs on the cell cycle were detected by flow cytometry. Target genes were predicted by bioinformatic analysis and confirmed by dual luciferase assay. RESULTS: Expressions of miR-9 and miR-9(*) in hippocampus of SAMP8 mice were lower than those of SAMR1 mice. Knockdown of miR-9 and miR-9(*) induced a prolonged G1 phase and a shortened S phase in N2a cells;in contrast,miR-9 and miR-9(*) overexpression showed opposite effects. The predicted target genes of miR-9 were PSEN1,SCN2B,MAP3K3,and BACE1,and that of miR-9(*) was CDKn1c. Dual luciferase reporter gene assay showed that miR-9 targeted MAP3K3 while miR-9(*) targeted CDKn1c. CONCLUSION: miR-9 and miR-9(*) play an important role during aging via the target genes MAP3K3 and CDKn1c in the SAMP8 mice.	Aging;Animals;Brain;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p57;Mice;MicroRNAs
Transcript and protein expression decoupling reveals RNA binding proteins and miRNAs as potential modulators of human aging	Y. N. Wei, et al.	2015	25853883	BACKGROUND: In studies of development and aging, the expression of many genes has been shown to undergo drastic changes at mRNA and protein levels. The connection between mRNA and protein expression level changes, as well as the role of posttranscriptional regulation in controlling expression level changes in postnatal development and aging, remains largely unexplored. RESULTS: Here, we survey mRNA and protein expression changes in the prefrontal cortex of humans and rhesus macaques over developmental and aging intervals of both species' lifespans. We find substantial decoupling of mRNA and protein expression levels in aging, but not in development. Genes showing increased mRNA/protein disparity in primate brain aging form expression patterns conserved between humans and macaques and are enriched in specific functions involving mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling, mitochondrial function and neurodegeneration. Mechanistically, aging-dependent mRNA/protein expression decoupling could be linked to a specific set of RNA binding proteins and, to a lesser extent, to specific microRNAs. CONCLUSIONS: Increased decoupling of mRNA and protein expression profiles observed in human and macaque brain aging results in specific co-expression profiles composed of genes with shared functions and shared regulatory signals linked to specific posttranscriptional regulators. Genes targeted and predicted to be targeted by the aging-dependent posttranscriptional regulation are associated with biological processes known to play important roles in aging and lifespan extension. These results indicate the potential importance of posttranscriptional regulation in modulating aging-dependent changes in humans and other species.	Aging/ genetics/pathology;Animals;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Humans;Macaca mulatta;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Prefrontal Cortex/growth & development/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/biosynthesis;RNA-Binding Proteins/ biosynthesis/genetics;Signal Transduction
Secreted microvesicular miR-31 inhibits osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells	S. Weilner, et al.	2016	27146333	Damage to cells and tissues is one of the driving forces of aging and age-related diseases. Various repair systems are in place to counteract this functional decline. In particular, the property of adult stem cells to self-renew and differentiate is essential for tissue homeostasis and regeneration. However, their functionality declines with age (Rando, 2006). One organ that is notably affected by the reduced differentiation capacity of stem cells with age is the skeleton. Here, we found that circulating microvesicles impact on the osteogenic differentiation capacity of mesenchymal stem cells in a donor-age-dependent way. While searching for factors mediating the inhibitory effect of elderly derived microvesicles on osteogenesis, we identified miR-31 as a crucial component. We demonstrated that miR-31 is present at elevated levels in the plasma of elderly and of osteoporosis patients. As a potential source of its secretion, we identified senescent endothelial cells, which are known to increase during aging in vivo (Erusalimsky, 2009). Endothelial miR-31 is secreted within senescent cell-derived microvesicles and taken up by mesenchymal stem cells where it inhibits osteogenic differentiation by knocking down its target Frizzled-3. Therefore, we suggest that microvesicular miR-31 in the plasma of elderly might play a role in the pathogenesis of age-related impaired bone formation and that miR-31 might be a valuable plasma-based biomarker for aging and for a systemic environment that does not favor cell-based therapies whenever osteogenesis is a limiting factor.	Adipose Tissue/cytology;Aging/blood;Antigens, CD63/metabolism;Cell Aging;Cell Differentiation;Cell-Derived Microparticles/ metabolism/ultrastructure;Endothelial Cells/metabolism;Frizzled Receptors/genetics/metabolism;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells/metabolism;Humans;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ cytology/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Osteogenesis;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNA;aging;mesenchymal stem cells;microvesicles;osteogenic differentiation;senescence-associated secretory phenotype
Differentially circulating miRNAs after recent osteoporotic fractures can influence osteogenic differentiation	S. Weilner, et al.	2015	26026730	Osteoporosis is the consequence of altered bone metabolism resulting in the systemic reduction of bone strength and increased risk of fragility fractures. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) regulate gene expression on a post-transcriptional level and are known to take part in the control of bone formation and bone resorption. In addition, it is known that miRNAs are secreted by many cell types and can transfer "messages" to recipient cells. Thus, circulating miRNAs might not only be useful as surrogate biomarkers for the diagnosis or prognosis of pathological conditions, but could be actively modulating tissue physiology. Therefore, the aim of this study was to test whether circulating miRNAs that exhibit changes in recent osteoporotic fracture patients could be causally related to bone metabolism. In the first step we performed an explorative analysis of 175 miRNAs in serum samples obtained from 7 female patients with recent osteoporotic fractures at the femoral neck, and 7 age-matched female controls. Unsupervised cluster analysis revealed a high discriminatory power of the top 10 circulating miRNAs for patients with recent osteoporotic fractures. In total 6 miRNAs, miR-10a-5p, miR-10b-5p, miR-133b, miR-22-3p, miR-328-3p, and let-7g-5p exhibited significantly different serum levels in response to fracture (adjusted p-value<0.05). These miRNAs were subsequently analyzed in a validation cohort of 23 patients (11 control, 12 fracture), which confirmed significant regulation for miR-22-3p, miR-328-3p, and let-7g-5p. A set of these and of other miRNAs known to change in the context of osteoporotic fractures were subsequently tested for their effects on osteogenic differentiation of human mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in vitro. The results show that 5 out of 7 tested miRNAs can modulate osteogenic differentiation of MSCs in vitro. Overall, these data suggest that levels of specific circulating miRNAs change in the context of recent osteoporotic fractures and that such perturbations of "normal" levels might affect bone metabolism or bone healing processes.	Aged;Cell Differentiation/ genetics;Female;Humans;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ blood;Osteogenesis/ genetics;Osteoporosis, Postmenopausal/complications;Osteoporotic Fractures/blood/ genetics;Polymerase Chain Reaction;Transfection;Bone;Circulating microRNA (miRNA);Mesenchymal stem cells;Osteogenic differentiation;Osteoporosis;Quantitative PCR (qPCR)
Evidence for a neuroprotective microRNA pathway in amnestic mild cognitive impairment	R. B. Weinberg, et al.	2015	26594146	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) that regulate mRNA stability have been linked to amyloid production, tau phosphorylation, and inflammation in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, whether cerebral miRNA networks are dysregulated during the earliest stages of AD remains underexplored. We performed miRNA expression analysis using frontal cortex tissue harvested from subjects who died with a clinical diagnosis of no cognitive impairment (NCI), amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI, a putative prodromal AD stage), or mild AD. Analysis revealed that the miRNA clusters miR-212/132 and miR-23a/23b were down-regulated in the frontal cortex of aMCI subjects. Both miR-212/132 and miR23a/b are predicted to destabilize the message for sirtuin 1 (sirt1); hence, down-regulation of either miR-212/132 or miR-23a/b in frontal cortex should promote sirt1 mRNA expression in this region. qPCR studies revealed that frontal cortex levels of sirt1 were increased in aMCI. Given the ability of frontal cortex to respond to the onset of dementia by neuronal reorganization, these data suggest that miRNA-mediated up-regulation of the sirt1 pathway represents a compensatory response to the onset of the disease. By contrast, qPCR analysis of inferior temporal cortex, an area affected early in the progression of AD, showed no changes in miR-212/132, miR-23a/b, or sirt1 transcripts in the same aMCI subjects. In vitro mechanistic studies showed that coordinated down-regulation of miR-212 and miR-23a increased sirt1 protein expression and provided neuroprotection from beta-amyloid toxicity in human neuronal cells. Taken together, these data suggest a novel miRNA-mediated neuroprotective pathway activated during the progression of AD that may be amenable to therapeutic manipulation.	Alzheimer's disease;frontal cortex;gene expression regulation;miR-212;miR-23a;microRNAs;mild cognitive impairment;sirtuin 1
Overexpression of the microRNA miR-433 promotes resistance to paclitaxel through the induction of cellular senescence in ovarian cancer cells	K. Weiner-Gorzel, et al.	2015	25684390	Annually, ovarian cancer (OC) affects 240,000 women worldwide and is the most lethal gynecological malignancy. High-grade serous OC (HGSOC) is the most common and aggressive OC subtype, characterized by widespread genome changes and chromosomal instability and is consequently poorly responsive to chemotherapy treatment. The objective of this study was to investigate the role of the microRNA miR-433 in the cellular response of OC cells to paclitaxel treatment. We show that stable miR-433 expression in A2780 OC cells results in the induction of cellular senescence demonstrated by morphological changes, downregulation of phosphorylated retinoblastoma (p-Rb), and an increase in beta-galactosidase activity. Furthermore, in silico analysis identified four possible miR-433 target genes associated with cellular senescence: cyclin-dependent kinase 6 (CDK6), MAPK14, E2F3, and CDKN2A. Mechanistically, we demonstrate that downregulation of p-Rb is attributable to a miR-433-dependent downregulation of CDK6, establishing it as a novel miR-433 associated gene. Interestingly, we show that high miR-433 expressing cells release miR-433 into the growth media via exosomes which in turn can induce a senescence bystander effect. Furthermore, in relation to a chemotherapeutic response, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis revealed that only PEO1 and PEO4 OC cells with the highest miR-433 expression survive paclitaxel treatment. Our data highlight how the aberrant expression of miR-433 can adversely affect intracellular signaling to mediate chemoresistance in OC cells by driving cellular senescence.	Apoptosis/genetics;Cell Aging/ drug effects/ genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Computational Biology;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 6/genetics;Drug Resistance, Neoplasm/ genetics;Female;Gene Expression;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Gene Regulatory Networks;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Ovarian Neoplasms/ genetics;Paclitaxel/ pharmacology;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Tumor Microenvironment/genetics;Cdk6;chemoresistance;miR-433;ovarian cancer;senescence
Neurodegenerative disease: a social role for microRNA	L. Welberg	2015	25469755		Animals;Behavior, Animal;Endosomal Sorting Complexes Required for Transport/ genetics;Frontal Lobe/ metabolism;Frontotemporal Dementia/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ genetics;Neurons/ metabolism;Receptors, AMPA/ metabolism;Social Behavior
miR-494-3p Induces Cellular Senescence and Enhances Radiosensitivity in Human Oral Squamous Carcinoma Cells	J. H. Weng, et al.	2016	27399693	Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is the most common malignancy of head and neck. Although radiotherapy is used for OSCC treatment, the occurrence of radioresistant cancer cells limits its efficiency. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are non-coding RNAs with lengths of 18-25 base pairs and known to be involved in carcinogenesis. We previously demonstrated that by targeting B lymphoma Mo-MLV insertion region 1 homolog (Bmi1), miR-494-3p functions as a putative tumor suppressor miRNA in OSCC. In this study, we further discovered that miR-494-3p could enhance the radiosensitivity of SAS OSCC cells and induce cellular senescence. The overexpression of miR-494-3p in SAS cells increased the population of senescence-associated beta-galactosidase positive cells, the expression of p16(INK4a) and retinoblastoma 1 (RB1), as well as downregulated Bmi1. The knockdown of Bmi1 by lentiviral-mediated delivery of specific short hairpin RNAs (shRNAs) also enhanced the radiosensitivity of SAS cells and the activation of the senescence pathway. Furthermore, the inverse correlation between Bmi1 and miR-494-3p expression was observed among OSCC tissues. Results suggest that miR-494-3p could increase the radiosensitivity of OSCC cells through the induction of cellular senescence caused by the downregulation of Bmi1.	3' Untranslated Regions;Antagomirs/metabolism;Base Sequence;Carcinoma, Squamous Cell/metabolism/ pathology;Cell Aging;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Survival/radiation effects;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p16/metabolism;Down-Regulation;Gamma Rays;Humans;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;Mouth Neoplasms/metabolism/ pathology;Polycomb Repressive Complex 1/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/metabolism;RNA Interference;RNA, Small Interfering/metabolism;Radiation Tolerance;Retinoblastoma-Binding Protein 1/metabolism;Sequence Alignment;beta-Galactosidase/metabolism;Bmi1;miR-494-3p;oral squamous cell carcinoma;radiotherapy;senescence
Genome-wide analysis of drosophila circular RNAs reveals their structural and sequence properties and age-dependent neural accumulation	J. O. Westholm, et al.	2014	25544350	Circularization was recently recognized to broadly expand transcriptome complexity. Here, we exploit massive Drosophila total RNA-sequencing data, >5 billion paired-end reads from >100 libraries covering diverse developmental stages, tissues, and cultured cells, to rigorously annotate >2,500 fruit fly circular RNAs. These mostly derive from back-splicing of protein-coding genes and lack poly(A) tails, and the circularization of hundreds of genes is conserved across multiple Drosophila species. We elucidate structural and sequence properties of Drosophila circular RNAs, which exhibit commonalities and distinctions from mammalian circles. Notably, Drosophila circular RNAs harbor >1,000 well-conserved canonical miRNA seed matches, especially within coding regions, and coding conserved miRNA sites reside preferentially within circularized exons. Finally, we analyze the developmental and tissue specificity of circular RNAs and note their preferred derivation from neural genes and enhanced accumulation in neural tissues. Interestingly, circular isoforms increase substantially relative to linear isoforms during CNS aging and constitute an aging biomarker.	Animals;Base Sequence;Central Nervous System/metabolism;Drosophila melanogaster/genetics/ metabolism;Female;Genome, Insect;Male;Nerve Tissue/ metabolism;RNA/ genetics/metabolism;Sequence Analysis, RNA;Transcriptome
Comprehensive transcriptional landscape of aging mouse liver	R. R. White, et al.	2015	26541291	BACKGROUND: Mammalian aging is a highly complex process, a full mechanistic understanding of which is still lacking. One way to help understand the molecular changes underlying aging is through a comprehensive analysis of the transcriptome, the primary determinant of age-related phenotypic diversity. Previous studies have relied on microarray analysis to examine gene expression profiles in different tissues of aging organisms. However, studies have shown microarray-based transcriptional profiling is less accurate and not fully capable of capturing certain intricacies of the global transcriptome. METHODS: Here, using directional whole transcriptome RNA-sequencing of aged mouse liver we have identified a comprehensive high-resolution profile of differentially expressed liver transcripts comprised of canonical protein-coding transcripts, transcript isoforms, and non-coding RNA transcripts, including pseudogenes, long non-coding RNAs and small RNA species. RESULTS: Results show extensive age-related changes in every component of the mouse liver transcriptome and a pronounced increase in inter-individual variation. Functional annotation of the protein-coding mRNAs and isoforms indicated broad alterations in immune response, cell activation, metabolic processes, and RNA modification. Interestingly, multiple lncRNAs (Meg3, Rian, Mirg) from the Dlk-Dio3 microRNA locus were found up-regulated in aging liver, classifying this locus as a putative regulatory hotspot locus in aging liver. Moreover, integration of the altered non-coding RNAs and protein-coding transcripts into interaction networks of age-related change revealed inflammation, cellular proliferation, and metabolism as the dominant aging phenotypes in mouse liver. CONCLUSIONS: Our analyses provide the first comprehensive dissection of the transcriptional landscape in aging mouse liver.	Aging/genetics/physiology;Animals;Liver/ metabolism;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;Transcriptome/ genetics
ABCA1 deficiency and cellular cholesterol accumulation increases islet amyloidogenesis in mice	N. Wijesekara, et al.	2016	26970755	AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Islet amyloid, a pathological feature of type 2 diabetes, forms from the aggregation of islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP), a beta cell peptide that is produced and co-secreted with insulin. Cholesterol regulates amyloid-beta processing, deposition and clearance, promoting amyloidogenesis in the brain. ATP-binding cassette transporter 1 (ABCA1) is a cholesterol efflux transporter that when absent increases and when overexpressed reduces brain amyloid-beta deposition in mouse models of Alzheimer's disease. We examined whether alterations in ABCA1 expression and islet cholesterol content could also modulate islet amyloidogenesis. METHODS: Thioflavin S staining for amyloid was performed in islets isolated from mice with beta cell expression of human IAPP (hIAPP (Tg/o)) and cultured for 8 days following cholesterol loading, microRNA-33 overexpression (to reduce ABCA1 expression) or palmitate treatment in the presence or absence of ABCA1 overexpression or mevastatin treatment (to reduce cholesterol synthesis). hIAPP (Tg/o) mice were crossed with beta cell-specific Abca1-knockout mice (hIAPP (Tg/o) Abca1 (betaKO)) and glucose tolerance and amyloid formation were assessed. RESULTS: Cholesterol loading and microRNA-33-induced reduction in islet ABCA1 expression increased Thioflavin S-positive amyloid in hIAPP (Tg/o) islets. Palmitate treatment also increased amyloid formation and this was reduced by both ABCA1 overexpression and mevastatin treatment. hIAPP (Tg/o) Abca1 (betaKO) mice had increased islet cholesterol, accompanied by fasting hyperglycaemia, glucose intolerance, impaired in vivo insulin secretion and an increased islet proinsulin:insulin ratio. Amyloid area was increased in cultured hIAPP (Tg/o) Abca1 (betaKO) islets compared with hIAPP (Tg/o) controls. CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: These data suggest that elevations in islet cholesterol may lead to increases in IAPP aggregation and islet amyloid formation, further worsening beta cell function and glucose homeostasis.	Abca1;Cholesterol;Iapp;Islet amyloid
Ambient pollutants, polymorphisms associated with microRNA processing and adhesion molecules: the Normative Aging Study	E. H. Wilker, et al.	2011	21600003	BACKGROUND: Particulate air pollution has been associated with cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, but it remains unclear which time windows and pollutant sources are most critical. MicroRNA (miRNA) is thought to be involved in cardiovascular regulation. However, little is known about whether polymorphisms in genes that process microRNAs influence response to pollutant exposure. We hypothesized that averaging times longer than routinely measured one or two day moving averages are associated with higher soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (sICAM-1) and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (sVCAM-1) levels, and that stationary and mobile sources contribute differently to these effects. We also investigated whether single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in miRNA-processing genes modify these associations. METHODS: sICAM-1 and sVCAM-1 were measured from 1999-2008 and matched to air pollution monitoring for fine particulate matter (PM2.5) black carbon, and sulfates (SO42-). We selected 17 SNPs in five miRNA-processing genes. Mixed-effects models were used to assess effects of pollutants, SNPs, and interactions under recessive inheritance models using repeated measures. RESULTS: 723 participants with 1652 observations and 1-5 visits were included in our analyses for black carbon and PM2.5. Sulfate data was available for 672 participants with 1390 observations. An interquartile range change in seven day moving average of PM2.5 (4.27 mug/m3) was associated with 3.1% (95%CI: 1.6, 4.6) and 2.5% (95%CI: 0.6, 4.5) higher sICAM-1 and sVCAM-1. Interquartile range changes in sulfates (1.39 mug/m3) were associated with 1.4% higher (95%CI: 0.04, 2.7) and 1.6% (95%CI: -0.4, 3.7) higher sICAM-1 and sVCAM-1 respectively. No significant associations were observed for black carbon. In interaction models with PM2.5, both sICAM-1 and sVCAM-1 levels were lower in rs1062923 homozygous carriers. These interactions remained significant after multiple comparisons adjustment. CONCLUSIONS: PM2.5 seven day moving averages are associated with higher sICAM-1 and sVCAM-1 levels. SO4-2 seven day moving averages are associated with higher sICAM-1 and a suggestive association was observed with sVCAM-1 in aging men. SNPs in miRNA-processing genes may modify associations between ambient pollution and sICAM-1 and sVCAM-1, which are correlates of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease.	Aged;Air Pollution;Atherosclerosis/epidemiology/etiology;Cardiovascular Diseases/epidemiology/etiology;Cohort Studies;Environmental Exposure;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;Humans;Intercellular Adhesion Molecule-1/ blood/genetics/metabolism;Longitudinal Studies;Male;Massachusetts/epidemiology;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Models, Biological;Particulate Matter/ analysis;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional;Sensitivity and Specificity;Soot/analysis;Sulfates/analysis;Time Factors;Vascular Cell Adhesion Molecule-1/ blood/genetics/metabolism
Black carbon exposures, blood pressure, and interactions with single nucleotide polymorphisms in MicroRNA processing genes	E. H. Wilker, et al.	2010	20211803	BACKGROUND: Black carbon (BC) is a marker of traffic pollution that has been associated with blood pressure (BP), but findings have been inconsistent. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are emerging as key regulators of gene expression, but whether polymorphisms in genes involved in processing of miRNAs to maturity influence susceptibility to BC has not been elucidated. OBJECTIVES: We investigated the association between BC and BP, as well as potential effect modification by single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in miRNA processing genes. METHODS: Repeated measures analyses were performed using data from the VA Normative Aging Study. Complete covariate data were available for 789 participants with one to six study visits between 1995 and 2008. In models of systolic and diastolic BP, we examined SNP-by-BC interactions with 19 miRNA-related variants under recessive models of inheritance. Mixed-effects models were adjusted for potential confounders including clinical characteristics, lifestyle, and meteorologic factors. RESULTS: A 1-SD increase in BC (0.415 microg/m(3)) was associated with 3.04 mmHg higher systolic (95% confidence interval (CI), 2.29-3.79) and 2.28 mmHg higher diastolic BP (95% CI, 1.88-2.67). Interactions modifying BC associations were observed with SNPs in the DICER, GEMIN4, and DiGeorge critical region-8 (DGCR8) genes, and in GEMIN3 and GEMIN4, predicting diastolic and systolic BP, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: We observed evidence of effect modification of the association between BP and 7-day BC moving averages by SNPs associated with miRNA processing. Although the mechanisms underlying these associations are not well understood, they suggest a role for miRNA genesis and processing in influencing BC effects.	Air Pollutants/chemistry/ toxicity;Blood Pressure/ drug effects;Carbon/chemistry;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation/ drug effects;Genes, Recessive/genetics;Genotype;Humans;Male;Massachusetts;MicroRNAs/genetics;Minor Histocompatibility Antigens;Models, Biological;Particulate Matter/chemistry/ toxicity;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide/genetics;Proteins/genetics;RNA-Binding Proteins;Ribonuclease III/genetics;Ribonucleoproteins, Small Nuclear/genetics
microRNA expression in the aging mouse lung	A. E. Williams, et al.	2007	17573962	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a novel class of short double stranded RNA that mediate the post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. Previous studies have implicated changes in miRNA expression in the regulation of development and the induction of diseases such as cancer. However, although miRNAs have been implicated in the process of aging in C. elegans, nothing is known of their role in mammalian tissues. RESULTS: To address this question, we have used a highly-sensitive, semi-quantitative RT-PCR based approach to measure the expression profile of 256 of the 493 currently identified miRNAs in the lungs from 6 month (adult) and 18 month (aged) old female BALB/c mice. We show that, despite the characteristic changes in anatomy and gene expression associated with lung aging, there were no significant changes in the expression of 256 miRNAs. CONCLUSION: Overall, these results show that miRNA transcription is unchanged during lung aging and suggests that stable expression of miRNAs might instead buffer age related changes in the expression of protein-encoding genes.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Lung/ metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction
MicroRNAs and Their Targets Are Differentially Regulated in Adult and Neonatal Mouse CD8+ T Cells	E. M. Wissink, et al.	2015	26416483	Immunological memory, which protects organisms from re-infection, is a hallmark of the mammalian adaptive immune system and the underlying principle of vaccination. In early life, however, mice and other mammals are deficient at generating memory CD8+ T cells, which protect organisms from intracellular pathogens. The molecular basis that differentiates adult and neonatal CD8+ T cells is unknown. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are both developmentally regulated and required for normal adult CD8+ T cell functions. We used next-generation sequencing to identify mouse miRNAs that are differentially regulated in adult and neonatal CD8+ T cells, which may contribute to the impaired development of neonatal memory cells. The miRNA profiles of adult and neonatal cells were surprisingly similar during infection; however, we observed large differences prior to infection. In particular, miR-29 and miR-130 have significant differential expression between adult and neonatal cells before infection. Importantly, using RNA-Seq, we detected reciprocal changes in expression of messenger RNA targets for both miR-29 and miR-130. Moreover, targets that we validated include Eomes and Tbx21, key genes that regulate the formation of memory CD8+ T cells. Notably, age-dependent changes in miR-29 and miR-130 are conserved in human CD8+ T cells, further suggesting that these developmental differences are biologically relevant. Together, these results demonstrate that miR-29 and miR-130 are likely important regulators of memory CD8+ T cell formation and suggest that neonatal cells are committed to a short-lived effector cell fate prior to infection.	Adolescent;Adult;Aging/genetics/immunology;Animals;CD8-Positive T-Lymphocytes/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Immunologic Memory/genetics;Infant, Newborn;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/ metabolism;Young Adult;adaptive immunity;development;microRNA regulation
Isolation and Proteomic Analysis of Microvesicles and Exosomes from HT22 Cells and Primary Neurons	R. Witas, et al.	2017	28508366	Exosomes and microvesicles are extracellular vesicles (EVs) released by most cell types. The role of EVs as a method of intercellular communication has led to these vesicles becoming a major area of interest in a variety of scientific fields including neuroscience. Emerging evidence is now demonstrating that the biomolecular composition of EVs, especially exosomes, can play a role in the progression of disease including various neurodegenerative diseases and cancer. In addition to the miRNA profiles of EVs, these vesicles also show interesting changes in protein expression profiles under different physiological and pathological conditions. Characterization of these profiles could prove valuable for both understanding disease pathogenesis and for the discovery of new biomarkers of disease. In this chapter, we describe a protocol for isolation of exosomes and microvesicles from immortalized HT22 cells and primary cortical neurons with sufficient yield and low serum contamination required for downstream analysis and label-free relative quantitation by mass spectrometry.	Exosomes;Extracellular vesicles;GeLC-MS/MS;Isolation;Label-free;Mass spectrometry;Microvesicles;Protein profile
Ectopic miR-125a Expression Induces Long-Term Repopulating Stem Cell Capacity in Mouse and Human Hematopoietic Progenitors	E. E. Wojtowicz, et al.	2016	27424784	Umbilical cord blood (CB) is a convenient and broadly used source of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) for allogeneic stem cell transplantation. However, limiting numbers of HSCs remain a major constraint for its clinical application. Although one feasible option would be to expand HSCs to improve therapeutic outcome, available protocols and the molecular mechanisms governing the self-renewal of HSCs are unclear. Here, we show that ectopic expression of a single microRNA (miRNA), miR-125a, in purified murine and human multipotent progenitors (MPPs) resulted in increased self-renewal and robust long-term multi-lineage repopulation in transplanted recipient mice. Using quantitative proteomics and western blot analysis, we identified a restricted set of miR-125a targets involved in conferring long-term repopulating capacity to MPPs in humans and mice. Our findings offer the innovative potential to use MPPs with enhanced self-renewal activity to augment limited sources of HSCs to improve clinical protocols.	
MicroRNA-125 family members exert a similar role in the regulation of murine hematopoiesis	E. E. Wojtowicz, et al.	2014	25092555	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are crucial for proper functioning of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs). Members of the miRNA-125 family (consisting of miR-125a, miR-125b1, and miR-125b2) are known to confer a proliferative advantage on cells upon overexpression, to decrease the rate of apoptosis by targeting proapoptotic genes, and to promote differentiation toward the myeloid lineage in mice. However, many distinct biological effects of the three miR-125 species have been reported as well. In the current study, we set out to assess whether the three miRNA-125s that carry identical seed sequences could be functionally different. Our data show that overexpression of each of the three miR-125 family members preserves HSPCs in a primitive state in vitro, results in a competitive advantage upon serial transplantation, and promotes skewing toward the myeloid lineage. All miR-125 family members decreased the pool of phenotypically defined Lin(-)Sca(+)Kit(+)CD48(-)CD150(+) long-term hematopoietic stem cells, simultaneously increasing the self-renewal activity upon secondary transplantation. The downregulation of miR-125s in hematopoietic stem cells abolishes these effects and impairs long-term contribution to blood cell production. The introduction of a point mutation within the miRNA-125 seed sequence abolishes all abovementioned effects and leads to the restoration of normal hematopoiesis. Our results show that all miR-125 family members are similar in function, they likely operate in a seed-sequence-dependent manner, and they induce a highly comparable hematopoietic phenotype.	Animals;Bone Marrow Transplantation;Cell Division;Cell Lineage;Cells, Cultured;Colony-Forming Units Assay;Female;Hematopoiesis/ genetics;Hematopoietic Stem Cells/ metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/genetics/ physiology;Mutagenesis, Site-Directed;Myelopoiesis/genetics;Oligonucleotides/pharmacology;Point Mutation;Radiation Chimera;Recombinant Fusion Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Structure-Activity Relationship
De-repression of FOXO3a death axis by microRNA-132 and -212 causes neuronal apoptosis in Alzheimer's disease	H. K. Wong, et al.	2013	23585551	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial and fatal neurodegenerative disorder for which the mechanisms leading to profound neuronal loss are incompletely recognized. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are recently discovered small regulatory RNA molecules that repress gene expression and are increasingly acknowledged as prime regulators involved in human brain pathologies. Here we identified two homologous miRNAs, miR-132 and miR-212, downregulated in temporal cortical areas and CA1 hippocampal neurons of human AD brains. Sequence-specific inhibition of miR-132 and miR-212 induces apoptosis in cultured primary neurons, whereas their overexpression is neuroprotective against oxidative stress. Using primary neurons and PC12 cells, we demonstrate that miR-132/212 controls cell survival by direct regulation of PTEN, FOXO3a and P300, which are all key elements of AKT signaling pathway. Silencing of these three target genes by RNAi abrogates apoptosis caused by the miR-132/212 inhibition. We further demonstrate that mRNA and protein levels of PTEN, FOXO3a, P300 and most of the direct pro-apoptotic transcriptional targets of FOXO3a are significantly elevated in human AD brains. These results indicate that the miR-132/miR-212/PTEN/FOXO3a signaling pathway contributes to AD neurodegeneration.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Apoptosis/drug effects/ genetics;Brain/metabolism/pathology;Down-Regulation;Forkhead Box Protein O3;Forkhead Transcription Factors/ genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Hydrogen Peroxide/pharmacology;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Models, Biological;Neurons/ metabolism;PTEN Phosphohydrolase/genetics/metabolism;RNA Interference;Rats;Signal Transduction;p300-CBP Transcription Factors/metabolism
Regulation of a TrkB Alternative Transcript by microRNAs	J. Wong	2014	25337079	BACKGROUND/AIMS: Tropomyosin-related kinase B receptor (TrkB)-mediated signaling is vital for neuronal differentiation, survival, plasticity, and cognition. In this study, the focus was placed on TrkB-Shc, a neuron-specific transcript, to determine if microRNAs (miRNAs) play a role in TrkB-Shc regulation. METHODS: A combination of bioinformatics and molecular gene expression analysis techniques was used to assess the effect of miR-409-3p and miR-216b on TrkB-Shc expression. RESULTS: miR-409-3p and miR-216b were found to regulate the TrkB-Shc 3'UTR through the identified putative binding sites. When the effect of the miRNAs on TrkB was assessed using SHSY5Y neuronal cells, differential effects were observed between mRNA and protein expression. CONCLUSION: This study highlights the importance of miRNA-mediated regulation in TrkB signaling.	Alzheimer's disease;Gene expression;Luciferase;Neurotrophin;TrkB
Transcriptome analysis in calorie-restricted rats implicates epigenetic and post-translational mechanisms in neuroprotection and aging	S. H. Wood, et al.	2015	26694192	BACKGROUND: Caloric restriction (CR) can increase longevity in rodents and improve memory function in humans. alpha-Lipoic acid (LA) has been shown to improve memory function in rats, but not longevity. While studies have looked at survival in rodents after switching from one diet to another, the underlying mechanisms of the beneficial effects of CR and LA supplementation are unknown. Here, we use RNA-seq in cerebral cortex from rats subjected to CR and LA-supplemented rats to understand how changes in diet can affect aging, neurodegeneration and longevity. RESULTS: Gene expression changes during aging in ad libitum-fed rats are largely prevented by CR, and neuroprotective genes are overexpressed in response to both CR and LA diets with a strong overlap of differentially expressed genes between the two diets. Moreover, a number of genes are differentially expressed specifically in rat cohorts exhibiting diet-induced life extension. Finally, we observe that LA supplementation inhibits histone deacetylase (HDAC) protein activity in vitro in rat astrocytes. We find a single microRNA, miR-98-3p, that is overexpressed during CR feeding and LA dietary supplementation; this microRNA alters HDAC and histone acetyltransferase (HAT) activity, which suggests a role for HAT/HDAC homeostasis in neuroprotection. CONCLUSIONS: This study presents extensive data on the effects of diet and aging on the cerebral cortex transcriptome, and also emphasises the importance of epigenetics and post-translational modifications in longevity and neuroprotection.	Animals;Caloric Restriction;Cerebral Cortex/drug effects/growth & development/ metabolism;Epigenesis, Genetic;Histone Acetyltransferases/metabolism;Histone Deacetylases/metabolism;Longevity;Male;Rats;Rats, Inbred BN;Thioctic Acid/pharmacology;Transcriptome
Discrepant expression of microRNAs in transparent and cataractous human lenses	C. Wu, et al.	2012	22562507	PURPOSE: Age-related cataracts are considered to be a pathological condition that arise as senescence progresses. However, little is known about the function of microRNAs (miRNAs) in the formation of age-related cataracts. The purpose of this study was to identify possible differences in miRNA expression in the central epithelium of transparent and age-related cataractous human lenses. METHODS: Microarrays were used to determine the miRNA expression profiles of both transparent and cataractous lenses. The results were analyzed by significance analyses performed by the microarray software, and the results were confirmed by stem-loop RT-PCR. Algorithms were used to predict the target genes of the differentially expressed miRNAs. RESULTS: Two hundred and six miRNAs were identified in all human lenses. The top eight miRNAs according to expression levels were miR-184, let-7b, miR-923, miR-1826, miR-125b, miR-1308, miR-26a, and miR-638 in transparent lenses. In contrast, the top eight miRNAs in cataractous lenses were miR-184, miR-1826, let-7b/c, miR-24, miR-23b, miR-923, and miR-23a. The expression levels of 20 miRNAs were increased and the levels of 12 miRNAs were decreased by more than 2-fold in transparent lenses relative to the levels in cataractous lenses. These findings were confirmed by stem-loop RT-PCR. In addition, several genes that were predicted to be targets of the identified miRNAs have been reported to be involved in lens development or cataract formation. CONCLUSIONS: The authors report, for the first time, the distinct expression profiles of miRNAs in the central epithelium of transparent and age-related cataractous human lenses. Significant differences in miRNA expression were identified, and the genes targeted by the relevant miRNAs were predicted. The differential expression of miRNAs suggests that these miRNAs have potential roles in lens development and/or cataract formation.	Aged;Algorithms;Cataract/ genetics;DNA Primers/chemistry;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation/ physiology;Humans;Lens, Crystalline/ physiology;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;RNA/isolation & purification;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction
Senescence-associated Long Non-coding RNA (SALNR) Delays Oncogene-induced Senescence through NF90 Regulation	C. L. Wu, et al.	2015	26491010	Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have recently emerged as key players in many physiologic and pathologic processes. Although many lncRNAs have been identified, few lncRNAs have been characterized functionally in aging. In this study, we used human fibroblast cells to investigate genome-wide lncRNA expression during cellular senescence. We identified 968 down-regulated lncRNAs and 899 up-regulated lncRNAs in senescent cells compared with young cells. Among these lncRNAs, we characterized a senescence-associated lncRNA (SALNR), whose expression was reduced during cellular senescence and in premalignant colon adenomas. Overexpression of SALNR delayed cellular senescence in fibroblast cells. Furthermore, we found that SALNR interacts with NF90 (nuclear factor of activated T-cells, 90 kDa), an RNA-binding protein suppressing miRNA biogenesis. We demonstrated that NF90 is a SALNR downstream target, whose inhibition led to premature senescence and enhanced expressions of senescence-associated miRNAs. Moreover, our data showed that Ras-induced stress promotes NF90 nucleolus translocation and suppresses its ability to suppress senescence-associated miRNA biogenesis, which could be rescued by SALNR overexpression. These data suggest that lncRNA SALNR modulates cellular senescence at least partly through changing NF90 activity.	Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Nucleolus/metabolism;Cells, Cultured;Genome-Wide Association Study;Humans;Nuclear Factor 90 Proteins/ physiology;Oncogenes;Protein Transport;RNA, Long Noncoding/ genetics;Nf90;Ras protein;Salnr;aging;long noncoding RNA (long ncRNA, lncRNA);oncogene;senescence
Expression of lens-related microRNAs in transparent infant lenses and congenital cataract	C. R. Wu, et al.	2017	28393025	AIM: To identify the expression of lens-related microRNAs (miRNAs) in the central epithelium of transparent infant lenses and congenital cataract. METHODS: Lens-related miRNAs were retrieved from PubMed database. The expression levels of these miRNAs in transparent infant lenses and congenital cataract were determined by stem-loop reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). miRanda algorithm was used to predict the target genes of these differentially expressed miRNAs. The target mRNA was validated. RESULTS: Six lens-related miRNAs were retrieved from screening PubMed database. The most abundant miRNA in transparent infant lenses according to stem-loop RT-PCR was miR-184. miR-182 was up-regulated in congenital cataract. Contrarily, miR-204 and miR-124 was down-regulated. miR-204 exhibited a more significant decrease in expression than miR-124. In addition, Meis2 was predicted to be the target of miR-204 using miRanda algorithm. miR-204 mimic/antagomir transfection experiments suggested the negative correlation between the expression of miR-204 and Meis2. CONCLUSION: The expression levels of miR-182, miR-204 and miR-124 differ between the central epithelium of transparent infant lens and congenital cataract, suggesting their involvement in the pathogenesis of congenital cataract. miR-204 may act via silencing Meis2 to regulate lens development and congenital cataract formation.	Meis2;congenital cataract;lens-related miRNAs;miR-204
Mir-434-5p mediates skin whitening and lightening	D. Wu, et al.	2008	21437136	Utilization of gene silencing effectors, such as microRNA (miRNA) and small hairpin RNA (shRNA), provides a powerful new strategy for human skin care in vivo, particularly for hyperpigmentation treatment and aging prevention. In this study, tyrosinase (Tyr), the rate-limiting enzyme of melanin (black pigment) biosynthesis, was served as a target for treatment of hyperpigmentation in mouse and human skins. There are over 54 native microRNA capable of silencing human tyrosinase for skin whitening and lightening. To this, we have designed a mir-434-5p homologue and used it to successfully demonstrate the feasibility of miRNA-mediated skin whitening and lightening in vitro and in vivo. Under the same experimental condition in the trials, Pol-II-directed intronic mir-434-5p expression did not cause any detectable sign of cytotoxicity, whereas siRNAs targeting the same sequence often induced certain nonspecific mRNA degradation as previously reported. Because the intronic miRNA-mediated gene silencing pathway is tightly regulated by multiple intracellular surveillance systems, including Pol-II transcription, RNA splicing, exosomal digestion and nonsense-mediated RNA decay (NMD), the current findings underscore the fact that intronic miRNA agents, such as manually re-designed mir-434-5p homologues, are effective, target-specific and safe to be used for skin whitening without any detectable cytotoxic effect. Given that the human skins also express a variety of other native miRNAs, we may re-design these miRNAs based on their individual functions for skin care, which may provide significant insights into areas of opportunity for new cosmetic and/or therapeutical applications.	RNAi;cosmetics;gene silencing;intron;melanin;miRNA;microRNA;mir-434;pigmentation;skin whitening;tyrosinase
Differential expression of microRNAs in postoperative radiotherapy sensitive and resistant patients with glioblastoma multiforme	H. M. Wu, et al.	2015	25758051	Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most malignant primary brain tumor and more resistant to radiotherapy. However, hetero-radiosensitivity occurs in different patients. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play important roles in the initiation and progression of a multitude of tumors. The study aims to examine the different microRNAs expression profiles of postoperative radiotherapy sensitive and resistant patients with GBM, to make an inquiry about their potential role and discover a certain set of radio-sensitivity markers. Three paired samples from six GBM patients who had only been treated with postoperative radiotherapy were selected, and then, they were divided into radiotherapy sensitive group and resistant group according to their overall survivals, local recurrence rates, and Karnofsky Performance Scale scores. Expression profiles of miRNAs in these two groups were determined by the method of microarray assay. Comparing with resistant patients, 13 miRNAs were significantly upregulated and 10 miRNAs were greatly downregulated in sensitive group. Among them, four miRNAs were validated by quantitative RT-PCR. The differentially expressed miRNAs and their putative target genes were revealed by bioformatic analysis to play a role in cell signaling, proliferation, aging, and death. High-enrichment pathway analysis identified that some classical pathways participated in numerous metabolic processes, especially in cell cycle regulation, such as mTOR, MAPK, TGF-beta, and PI3K-Akt signaling pathways. Our research will contribute to identifying clinical diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets in the treatment of GBM by postoperative radiotherapy.	Adult;Aged;Brain Neoplasms/ genetics/pathology/radiotherapy;Cell Proliferation/genetics;Glioblastoma/ genetics/radiotherapy;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Middle Aged;Postoperative Period;Radiation Tolerance/ genetics
Metabolic phenotype-microRNA data fusion analysis of the systemic consequences of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery	Q. Wu, et al.	2015	25783038	BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: Bariatric surgery offers sustained marked weight loss and often remission of type 2 diabetes, yet the mechanisms of establishment of these health benefits are not clear. SUBJECTS/METHODS: We mapped the coordinated systemic responses of gut hormones, the circulating miRNAome and the metabolome in a rat model of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) surgery. RESULTS: The response of circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) to RYGB was striking and selective. Analysis of 14 significantly altered circulating miRNAs within a pathway context was suggestive of modulation of signaling pathways including G protein signaling, neurodegeneration, inflammation, and growth and apoptosis responses. Concomitant alterations in the metabolome indicated increased glucose transport, accelerated glycolysis and inhibited gluconeogenesis in the liver. Of particular significance, we show significantly decreased circulating miRNA-122 levels and a more modest decline in hepatic levels, following surgery. In mechanistic studies, manipulation of miRNA-122 levels in a cell model induced changes in the activity of key enzymes involved in hepatic energy metabolism, glucose transport, glycolysis, tricarboxylic acid cycle, pentose phosphate shunt, fatty-acid oxidation and gluconeogenesis, consistent with the findings of the in vivo surgery-mediated responses, indicating the powerful homeostatic activity of the miRNAs. CONCLUSIONS: The close association between energy metabolism, neuronal signaling and gut microbial metabolites derived from the circulating miRNA, plasma, urine and liver metabolite and gut hormone correlations further supports an enhanced gut-brain signaling, which we suggest is hormonally mediated by both traditional gut hormones and miRNAs. This transomic approach to map the crosstalk between the circulating miRNAome and metabolome offers opportunities to understand complex systems biology within a disease and interventional treatment setting.	Anastomosis, Roux-en-Y/ methods;Animals;Blood Glucose;Disease Models, Animal;Energy Metabolism;Gastrointestinal Hormones/ metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Neuropeptides/ metabolism;Obesity/ metabolism;Phenotype;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Signal Transduction;Weight Loss
The Protective Role of microRNA-200c in Alzheimer's Disease Pathologies Is Induced by Beta Amyloid-Triggered Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress	Q. Wu, et al.	2016	28008308	MicroRNAs are small non-coding RNAs that repress the expression of their target proteins. The roles of microRNAs in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are not clear. In this study we show that miR-200c represses the expression of PTEN protein. PTEN downregulation by miR-200c supports the survival and differentiation of cultured neurons. AD is a progressive neurodegenerative disease signified by beta amyloid (Abeta) peptide aggregation and deposition. In a mouse model of AD that is induced by APPswe and PS1DeltaE9 double transgenes, we found Abeta deposition results in neuronal ER stress that induces miR200c. Pharmacological blockade of ER stress inhibited Abeta-induced miR-200c overexpression in AD brains. MiR-200c was detected in the serum of both AD mice and human AD patients. These findings suggest that miR-200c functions as part of the neuronal cell-intrinsic adaptive machinery, and supports neuronal survival and differentiation in response to Abeta induced ER-stress by downregulating PTEN.	Alzheimer's disease (AD);Pten;beta amyloid peptide (Abeta);endoplasmic reticulum stress (ER stress);miR-200c;microRNA
Opposing impacts on healthspan and longevity by limiting dietary selenium in telomere dysfunctional mice	R. T. Wu, et al.	2017	27653523	Selenium (Se) is a trace metalloid essential for life, but its nutritional and physiological roles during the aging process remain elusive. While telomere attrition contributes to replicative senescence mainly through persistent DNA damage response, such an aging process is mitigated in mice with inherently long telomeres. Here, weanling third generation telomerase RNA component knockout mice carrying short telomeres were fed a Se-deficient basal diet or the diet supplemented with 0.15 ppm Se as sodium selenate to be nutritionally sufficient throughout their life. Dietary Se deprivation delayed wound healing and accelerated incidence of osteoporosis, gray hair, alopecia, and cataract, but surprisingly promoted longevity. Plasma microRNA profiling revealed a circulating signature of Se deprivation, and subsequent ontological analyses predicted dominant changes in metabolism. Consistent with this observation, dietary Se deprivation accelerated age-dependent declines in glucose tolerance, insulin sensitivity, and glucose-stimulated insulin production in the mice. Moreover, DNA damage and senescence responses were enhanced and Pdx1 and MafA mRNA expression were reduced in pancreas of the Se-deficient mice. Altogether, these results suggest a novel model of aging with conceptual advances, whereby Se at low levels may be considered a hormetic chemical and decouple healthspan and longevity.	Animals;Body Weight/drug effects;Diet;Down-Regulation/drug effects;Gene Expression Profiling;Genomic Instability/drug effects;Glucose/metabolism;Health;Histones/metabolism;Insulin/metabolism;Longevity/ drug effects;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Pancreas/drug effects/metabolism;Phenotype;RNA/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Selenium/blood/ pharmacology;Survival Analysis;Telomerase/metabolism;Telomere/drug effects/ metabolism;accelerated aging;antioxidant;longevity regulation;mouse models;selenium;trade-offs
Lithium down-regulates histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) and induces degradation of mutant huntingtin	S. Wu, et al.	2013	24165128	Lithium is an effective mood stabilizer that has been clinically used to treat bipolar disorder for several decades. Recent studies have suggested that lithium possesses robust neuroprotective and anti-tumor properties. Thus far, a large number of lithium targets have been discovered. Here, we report for the first time that HDAC1 is a target of lithium. Lithium significantly down-regulated HDAC1 at the translational level by targeting HDAC1 mRNA. We also showed that depletion of HDAC1 is essential for the neuroprotective effects of lithium and for the lithium-mediated degradation of mutant huntingtin through the autophagic pathway. Our studies explain the multiple functions of lithium and reveal a novel mechanism for the function of lithium in neurodegeneration.	Autophagy;CELF1 Protein;Down-Regulation/drug effects;Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3/metabolism;Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3 beta;HEK293 Cells;HeLa Cells;Histone Deacetylase 1/ antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics/metabolism;Histone Deacetylase Inhibitors/pharmacology;Humans;Huntingtin Protein;Lithium/ pharmacology;Mutant Proteins/ genetics/ metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ genetics/ metabolism;Neuroprotective Agents/pharmacology;Proteolysis/drug effects;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;RNA-Binding Proteins/metabolism;Cell Biology;Cell Signaling;Histone Deacetylase;Histone Deacetylase Inhibitors;Huntington Disease;MicroRNA;Neurodegeneration
microRNA-dependent gene regulatory networks in maize leaf senescence	X. Wu, et al.	2016	27000050	BACKGROUND: Maize grain yield depends mainly on the photosynthetic efficiency of functional leaves, which is controlled by an array of gene networks and other factors, including environmental conditions. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small RNA molecules that play important roles in plant developmental regulation. A few senescence-associated miRNAs (SA-miRNAs) have been identified as important participants in regulating leaf senescence by modulating the expression levels of their target genes. RESULTS: To elucidate miRNA roles in leaf senescence and their underlying molecular mechanisms in maize, a stay-green line, Yu87-1, and an early leaf senescence line, Early leaf senescence-1 (ELS-1), were selected as experimental materials for the differential expression of candidate miRNAs. Four small RNA libraries were constructed from ear leaves at 20 and 30 days after pollination and sequenced by Illumina deep sequencing technology. Altogether, 81 miRNAs were detected in both lines. Of these, 16 miRNAs of nine families were differentially expressed between ELS-1 andYu87-1. The phenotypic and chlorophyll content analyses of both lines identified these 16 differentially expressed miRNAs as candidate SA-miRNAs. CONCLUSIONS: In this study, 16 candidate SA-miRNAs of ELS-1 were identified through small RNA deep sequencing technology. Degradome sequencing results indicated that these candidate SA-miRNAs may regulate leaf senescence through their target genes, mainly transcription factors, and potentially control chlorophyll degradation pathways. The results highlight the regulatory roles of miRNAs during leaf senescence in maize.	Gene Expression Regulation, Plant;Gene Regulatory Networks;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Plant Leaves/ metabolism/physiology;RNA, Plant/ physiology;Time Factors;Zea mays/ genetics/physiology;Deep sequencing;Leaf senescence;Maize;Regulatory mechanism;microRNAs
Lower Serum Levels of miR-29c-3p and miR-19b-3p as Biomarkers for Alzheimer's Disease	Y. Wu, et al.	2017	28626163	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short noncoding RNA that participate in posttranscriptional gene regulation. However, little is understood about the roles of miRNAs in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we used next-generation sequencing on RNA extracted from the serum samples of 20 AD patients and 20 controls, yielding a total of 72 miRNAs with significantly changed expression levels. Among these candidates, we selected 9 miRNAs with most significant alteration in disease, and validated their expression levels using RT-qPCR analysis on serum samples from 45 AD patients and 40 control subjects. Thus, the serum levels of miR-146a-5p, 106b-3p, 195-5p, 20b-5p, and 497-5p were significantly higher, while those of miR-125b-3p, 29c-3p, 93-5p and 19b-3p were significantly lower in AD patients, compared with control subjects. Two miRNAs, miR-29c-3p and miR-19b-3p, were selected because both RNA deep-sequencing and q-PCR methods indicated lower serum levels of these miRNAs in AD patients. Computational analysis predicted that 3'-untranslated region of signal transduction and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) mRNA is targeted both by miR-29c-3p and miR-19b-3p. Using SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells, we showed that transfection with miR-29c-3p or miR-19b-3p inhibitor significantly increased STAT3 phosphorylation. Furthermore, Water maze test, which assesses the learning and memory deficits in rodents, showed that escape latency was significantly shorter in AD rats with overexpression of miR-29c-3p or miR-19b-3p than in control AD rats. These results suggest that miR-29c-3p or miR-19b-3p may contribute to the cognitive function. In conclusion, the serum levels of miR-29c-3p and miR-19b-3p are helpful biomarkers for AD.	Alzheimer's disease;Stat3;miR-19b-3p;miR-29c-3p;microRNA
Identification of miR-106b-93 as a negative regulator of brown adipocyte differentiation	Y. Wu, et al.	2013	23954633	microRNAs (miRNAs) have been reported to play an essential role in the regulation of brown adipocyte adipogenesis. In the present study, we investigated the role of the miR-106b-93 cluster in the differentiation of brown adipocytes. We found that knockdown of miR-106b and miR-93 significantly induced the expression of brown fat-specific genes and promoted the accumulation of lipid-droplet in differentiating brown adipocytes. In addition, ectopic expression of miR-106b and miR-93 suppressed the mRNA level of Ucp1, a selective hallmark of brown adipocytes. Furthermore, the expression levels of miR-106b and miR-93 are higher in brown adipose tissues of high fat diet-induced obese mice compared to control mice. Taken together, our results identify miR-106b and miR-93 as negative regulators of brown adipocyte differentiation and the miR-106b-93 cluster may play an important role in regulating energy homeostasis.	Adipocytes, Brown/ cytology/metabolism;Adipogenesis;Animals;Cell Line;Diet, High-Fat;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Obese;MicroRNAs/analysis/ genetics;Triglycerides/analysis/metabolism;Up-Regulation;Brown adipocytes;Differentiation;MicroRNA;miR-106b;miR-93
Cigarette smoke mediates epigenetic repression of miR-487b during pulmonary carcinogenesis	S. Xi, et al.	2013	23426183	MicroRNAs are critical mediators of stem cell pluripotency, differentiation, and malignancy. Limited information exists regarding microRNA alterations that facilitate initiation and progression of human lung cancers. In this study, array techniques were used to evaluate microRNA expression in normal human respiratory epithelia and lung cancer cells cultured in the presence or absence of cigarette smoke condensate (CSC). Under relevant exposure conditions, CSC significantly repressed miR-487b. Subsequent experiments demonstrated that miR-487b directly targeted SUZ12, BMI1, WNT5A, MYC, and KRAS. Repression of miR-487b correlated with overexpression of these targets in primary lung cancers and coincided with DNA methylation, de novo nucleosome occupancy, and decreased H2AZ and TCF1 levels within the miR-487b genomic locus. Deoxy-azacytidine derepressed miR-487b and attenuated CSC-mediated silencing of miR-487b. Constitutive expression of miR-487b abrogated Wnt signaling, inhibited in vitro proliferation and invasion of lung cancer cells mediated by CSC or overexpression of miR-487b targets, and decreased growth and metastatic potential of lung cancer cells in vivo. Collectively, these findings indicate that miR-487b is a tumor suppressor microRNA silenced by epigenetic mechanisms during tobacco-induced pulmonary carcinogenesis and suggest that DNA demethylating agents may be useful for activating miR-487b for lung cancer therapy.	Adenocarcinoma/etiology/ genetics/metabolism/secondary;Animals;Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Cell Aging;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Transformation, Neoplastic/genetics/ metabolism;Chromatin Assembly and Disassembly;CpG Islands;DNA Methylation;Epigenesis, Genetic;Female;Gene Expression;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Genes, Tumor Suppressor;Hepatocyte Nuclear Factor 1-alpha/metabolism/physiology;Histones/metabolism;Humans;Lung Neoplasms/etiology/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Male;Mice;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;Neoplasm Transplantation;Polycomb Repressive Complex 1/genetics/metabolism;Polycomb Repressive Complex 2/genetics/metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-myc/genetics/metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins p21(ras);RNA Interference;Smoke/ adverse effects;Smoking/adverse effects;Tobacco/chemistry;Transforming Growth Factor beta1/physiology;Wnt Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Wnt-5a Protein;ras Proteins/genetics/metabolism
MiR-133b-5p regulates the expression of the heat shock protein 70 during rat neuronal cell apoptosis induced by the gp120 V3 loop peptide	C. Xia, et al.	2016	26280272	Neuronal cell dysfunction and apoptosis, the main causes of HIV-associated dementia, and its underlying mechanism are important unsolved health problems. Many research reports suggest that miRNAs regulate HIV-1-induced apoptosis. We used the HIV-1 gp120 V3 Loop peptide to induce primary rat cortical neurons apoptosis. Next, we used a microRNA microarray to identify the significant changes of miRNA in the rat cortical neurons treated with the gp120 V3 loop peptide. We used western blot and real-time PCR to measure the regulation of heat shock protein 70 by rno-miR-133b-5p. In response to the gp120 V3 loop peptide treatment, rat cortical neurons exhibited 11 up-regulated and 21 down-regulated miRNAs. We further examined miR-133b-5p, a microRNA that was up-regulated more than 118-fold. In addition, both HSP70 mRNA and protein expression were dose-dependent in rats cortical neurons treated with gp120 V3 loop peptide for 48 hr. MiR-133b-5p could regulate heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) at both transcription and translation levels. Rno-miR-133b-5p might be less significant for the gp120 V3 loop peptide induced neuron apoptosis. Thus, we discovered a potential new target for the regulation of HIV-1 gp120- induced apoptosis.	Animals;Apoptosis/ genetics;Blotting, Western;Cells, Cultured;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Regulation;HIV Envelope Protein gp120/ metabolism;HSP70 Heat-Shock Proteins/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Microarray Analysis;Neurons/drug effects/ pathology;Peptide Fragments/ metabolism;Rats;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Up-Regulation;apoptosis;gp120;heat shock protein 70;miR-133b-5p;microRNA
MicroRNA Therapeutics	J. Xiao	2015	25910843		Disease/genetics;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics;Molecular Targeted Therapy
miR-212 downregulation contributes to the protective effect of exercise against non-alcoholic fatty liver via targeting FGF-21	J. Xiao, et al.	2016	26648452	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is associated with obesity and lifestyle, while exercise is beneficial for NAFLD. Dysregulated microRNAs (miRs) control the pathogenesis of NAFLD. However, whether exercise could prevent NAFLD via targeting microRNA is unknown. In this study, normal or high-fat diet (HF) mice were either subjected to a 16-week running program or kept sedentary. Exercise attenuated liver steatosis in HF mice. MicroRNA array and qRT-PCR demonstrated that miR-212 was overexpressed in HF liver, while reduced by exercise. Next, we investigated the role of miR-212 in lipogenesis using HepG2 cells with/without long-chain fatty acid treatment (+/- FFA). FFA increased miR-212 in HepG2 cells. Moreover, miR-212 promoted lipogenesis in HepG2 cells (+/- FFA). Fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-21, a key regulator for lipid metabolism, was negatively regulated by miR-212 at protein level in HepG2 cells. Meanwhile, FFA downregulated FGF-21 both at mRNA and protein levels in HepG2 cells. Also, FGF-21 protein level was reduced in HF liver, while reversed by exercise in vivo. Furthermore, siRNA-FGF-21 abolished the lipogenesis-reducing effect of miR-212 inhibitor in HepG2 cells (+/- FFA), validating FGF-21 as a target gene of miR-212. These data link the benefit of exercise and miR-212 downregulation in preventing NAFLD via targeting FGF-21.	Animals;Cell Line, Tumor;Diet, High-Fat/adverse effects;Down-Regulation/ genetics;Fatty Acids/metabolism;Fibroblast Growth Factors/ genetics/metabolism;Hep G2 Cells;Humans;Lipid Metabolism/genetics;Liver/metabolism/pathology;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Non-alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease/ genetics/metabolism/ pathology;Physical Conditioning, Animal/ physiology;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Fgf-21;Nafld;exercise;miR-212;steatosis
Therapeutic Inhibition of miR-4260 Suppresses Colorectal Cancer via Targeting MCC and SMAD4	J. Xiao, et al.	2017	28638476	Dysregulation of microRNAs (miRNAs, miRs) and their putative target genes have been increasingly reported to contribute to colorectal cancer. However, miRNAs that directly target the mutated in colorectal cancer (MCC) gene, a tumor suppressor which is downregulated or inactivated in colorectal cancer, remain largely unknown. By using an array-based miRNA analysis, we identified a group of miRNAs that were dysregulated in human metastatic versus non-metastatic colorectal cancer tissues. One of these miRNAs, miR-4260, was predicted to target MCC in the miRDB database. Results using human HCT116 and HT29 colorectal cancer cell lines showed that miR-4260 mimic enhanced cell proliferation and migration and reduced apoptosis induced by the chemotherapeutic agent 5-fluorouracil while miR-4260 inhibitor had inverse effects. Furthermore, miR-4260 negatively regulated MCC as well as SMAD4 by directly binding to the 3'untranslational region (3'UTR). Using siRNAs targeting MCC or SMAD4, we showed that upregulation of MCC and SMAD4 was essential to mediate the functional roles of miR-4260 inhibitor in colorectal cancer cells. Our in vivo experiments indicated that inhibition of miR-4260 reduced colorectal tumor growth in nude mice subcutaneously implanted with HCT116 cells. Significantly, miR-4260 was increased in human colorectal cancer tissues with simultaneous downregulation of MCC and SMAD4, strongly suggesting the clinical relevance of targeting miR-4260 in the treatment of colorectal cancer. In summary, we identified miR-4260 as a novel oncomiR for colorectal cancer that targets MCC and SMAD4. Inhibition of miR-4260 can, therefore, be a potential therapeutic strategy for colorectal cancer.	Colorectal cancer;Mcc;Smad4.;miRNA-4260
A snapshot of genetic and epigenetic basis of arrhythmia and heart failure	J. Xiao, et al.	2015	25784925		arrhythmia;epigenetics;genetic variation;heart failure;microRNAs
miR-29b represses intestinal mucosal growth by inhibiting translation of cyclin-dependent kinase 2	L. Xiao, et al.	2013	23904268	The epithelium of the intestinal mucosa is a rapidly self-renewing tissue in the body, and defects in the renewal process occur commonly in various disorders. microRNAs (miRNAs) posttranscriptionally regulate gene expression and are implicated in many aspects of cellular physiology. Here we investigate the role of miRNA-29b (miR-29b) in the regulation of normal intestinal mucosal growth and further validate its target mRNAs. miRNA expression profiling studies reveal that growth inhibition of the small intestinal mucosa is associated with increased expression of numerous miRNAs, including miR-29b. The simple systemic delivery of locked nucleic acid-modified, anti-miR-29b-reduced endogenous miR-29b levels in the small intestinal mucosa increases cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (CDK2) expression and stimulates mucosal growth. In contrast, overexpression of the miR-29b precursor in intestinal epithelial cells represses CDK2 expression and results in growth arrest in G1 phase. miR-29b represses CDK2 translation through direct interaction with the cdk2 mRNA via its 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR), whereas point mutation of miR-29b binding site in the cdk2 3'-UTR prevents miR-29b-induced repression of CDK2 translation. These results indicate that miR-29b inhibits intestinal mucosal growth by repressing CDK2 translation.	Animals;Cell Line;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 2/antagonists & inhibitors/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Humans;Intestinal Mucosa/ growth & development/metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Protein Biosynthesis/ genetics;Rats
Generation of Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells with Substitutes for Yamanaka's Four Transcription Factors	X. Xiao, et al.	2016	27696909	Induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) share many characteristics with embryonic stem cells, but lack ethical controversy. They provide vast opportunities for disease modeling, pathogenesis understanding, therapeutic drug development, toxicology, organ synthesis, and treatment of degenerative disease. However, this procedure also has many potential challenges, including a slow generation time, low efficiency, partially reprogrammed colonies, as well as somatic coding mutations in the genome. Pioneered by Shinya Yamanaka's team in 2006, iPSCs were first generated by introducing four transcription factors: Oct 4, Sox 2, Klf 4, and c-Myc (OSKM). Of those factors, Klf 4 and c-Myc are oncogenes, which are potentially a tumor risk. Therefore, to avoid problems such as tumorigenesis and low throughput, one of the key strategies has been to use other methods, including members of the same subgroup of transcription factors, activators or inhibitors of signaling pathways, microRNAs, epigenetic modifiers, or even differentiation-associated factors, to functionally replace the reprogramming transcription factors. In this study, we will mainly focus on the advances in the generation of iPSCs with substitutes for OSKM. The identification and combination of novel proteins or chemicals, particularly small molecules, to induce pluripotency will provide useful tools to discover the molecular mechanisms governing reprogramming and ultimately lead to the development of new iPSC-based therapeutics for future clinical applications.	
Increased Serum miR-206 Level Predicts Conversion from Amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment to Alzheimer's Disease: A 5-Year Follow-up Study	B. Xie, et al.	2017	27662297	Evidence suggests that individuals with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) tend to progress to probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) with aging. This study was performed to examine whether circulating miRNAs could be potential predictors for the progression of aMCI to AD. A total of 458 patients with aMCI were included in this study, and the clinical data were collected at two time points: the baseline and the follow-up assessment. These aMCI patients were classified into two groups after 5 years: aMCI-stable group (n = 330) and AD-conversion group (n = 128). The expression of miR-206 and miR-132 and the levels of BDNF and SIRT1 in serum were detected using a quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qPCR) and the ELISA method, respectively. Kaplan-Meier method (Log-rank test) was used for univariate survival analysis. Cox proportional hazard model was used to estimate the prognostic value of miRNAs in conversion from aMCI to AD. At the baseline, serum levels of miR-206 in aMCI-AD group were significantly elevated compared to aMCI-aMCI group and the same trend was found at 5-year follow-up time point as well. There were no significant differences in serum levels of miR-132 between the conversion and non-conversion group at both time points. Kaplan-Meier analysis showed significant correlation between AD conversion and higher serum levels of miR-206 for aMCI patients (HR = 3.60, 95% CI: 2.51- 5.36, p < 0.001). Multivariate Cox regression analysis revealed that serum miR-206 and its target BDNF were significant independent predictors for AD conversion (HR = 4.22, p < 0.001). These results suggested that increased serum miR-206 level might be a potential predictor of conversion from aMCI to AD.	Alzheimer's disease;amnestic mild cognitive impairment;circulating microRNA;follow-up study;predictor
Serum miR-206 and miR-132 as Potential Circulating Biomarkers for Mild Cognitive Impairment	B. Xie, et al.	2015	25589731	MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a class of small, non-coding RNA molecules with gene regulatory functions, have emerged to play a critical role in the pathogenesis of a variety of diseases. Recently, circulating miRNAs have been reported as potential biomarkers for various pathologic conditions. The present study was performed to investigate the potential role of circulating miRNAs as diagnostic biomarkers for mild cognitive impairment (MCI). We collected 66 patients with MCI and 76 normal controls from our previous cross-sectional cohort study. Seven miRNAs (miR-206, miR-132, miR-193b, miR-130b, miR-20a, miR-296, and miR-329) related to Alzheimer's disease (AD) were detected in serum using a quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) method. Each miRNA's diagnostic performance was evaluated by receiver operating characteristic curves and the areas under curves (AUC) analysis. The levels of miR-206 and miR-132 in MCI patients' serum were significantly elevated compared to normal controls. Combining detection of miR-206 and miR-132 achieved the highest AUC of 0.981, followed by test of miR-206 (AUC = 0.880) and miR-132 (AUC = 0.912) separately. Importantly, miR-206 and miR-132 were respectively correlated with the Montreal Cognitive Assessment score in MCI patients. These results preliminarily indicated that circulating miR-206 and miR-132 as novel miRNAs upregulated in MCI patient were potential biomarkers for diagnosis of MCI.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Biomarkers/ blood;Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor/blood;Cognitive Dysfunction/ blood;Cohort Studies;Fasting/blood;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/genetics;Middle Aged;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;ROC Curve;Sirtuin 1/blood;Statistics, Nonparametric;Up-Regulation/physiology;Biomarkers;diagnosis;microRNA;mild cognitive impairment;serum
miR-377 induces senescence in human skin fibroblasts by targeting DNA methyltransferase 1	H. F. Xie, et al.	2017	28277545	Skin aging is a complicated physiological process and epigenetic feature, including microRNA-mediated regulation and DNA methylation, have been shown to contribute to this process. DNA methylation is regulated by DNA methyltransferase, of which DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) is the most abundantly known. But evidence supporting its role in skin aging remains scarce, and no report regards its specifical upstream-regulating molecules in the process of skin aging so far. Here, we found that DNMT1 expression was markedly higher in young human skin fibroblasts (HSFs) than that in passage-aged HSFs, and DNMT1 knockdown significantly induced the senescence phenotype in young HSFs. We predicted the upstream miRNAs which could regulate DNMT1 with miRNA databases and found miR-377 had high homology with a sequence in the 3'-UTR of human DNMT1 mRNA. We confirmed that miR-377 was a potential regulator of DNMT1 by luciferase reporter assays. miR-377 expression in passage-aged HSFs was markedly higher than that in the young HSFs. miR-377 overexpression promoted senescence in young HSFs, and inhibition of miR-377 reduced senescence in passage-aged HSFs. Moreover, these functions were mediated by targeting DNMT1. Microfluidic PCR and next-generation bisulfite sequencing of 24 senescent-associated genes' promoters revealed alterations of the promoter methylation levels of FoxD3, p53, and UTF1 in HSFs treated with miR-377 mimics or inhibitors. We also verified that the miR-377-mediated changes in p53 expression could be reversed by regulation of DNMT1 in HSFs. Similarly, there was a negative correlation between miR-377 and DNMT1 expression in young and photoaged HSFs, HSFs, or skin tissues from UV-unexposed areas of different aged donors. Our results highlight a novel role for miR-377-DNMT1-p53 axis in HSF senescence. These findings shed new light on the mechanisms of skin aging and identify future opportunities for its therapeutic prevention.	
Targeted Disruption of miR-17-92 Impairs Mouse Spermatogenesis by Activating mTOR Signaling Pathway	R. Xie, et al.	2016	26886608	The miR-17-92 cluster and its 6 different mature microRNAs, including miR-17, miR-18a, miR-19a, miR-20a, miR-19b-1, and miR-92a, play important roles in embryo development, immune system, kidney and heart development, adipose differentiation, aging, and tumorigenicity. Currently, increasing evidence indicates that some members of miR-17-92 cluster may be critical players in spermatogenesis, including miR-17, miR-18a, and miR-20a. However, the roles and underlying mechanisms of miR-17-92 in spermatogenesis remain largely unknown. Our results showed that the targeted disruption of miR-17-92 in the testes of adult mice resulted in severe testicular atrophy, empty seminiferous tubules, and depressed sperm production. This phenotype is partly because of the reduced number of spermatogonia and spermatogonial stem cells, and the significantly increased germ cell apoptosis in the testes of miR-17-92-deficient mice. In addition, overactivation of the mammalian target of rapamycin signaling pathway and upregulation of the pro-apoptotic protein Bim, Stat3, c-Kit, and Socs3 were also observed in miR-17-92-deficient mouse testes, which might be, at least partially if not all, responsible for the aforementioned phenotypic changes in mutant testes. Taken together, these findings suggest that miR-17-92 is essential for normal spermatogenesis in mice.	Animals;Apoptosis;Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins/metabolism;Bcl-2-Like Protein 11;Cell Line;Male;Membrane Proteins/metabolism;Mice;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins/metabolism;Signal Transduction/physiology;Spermatogenesis/ physiology;Spermatogonia/metabolism;TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases/ biosynthesis;Testis/metabolism
Upregulation of microRNA-206 enhances lipopolysaccharide-induced inflammation and release of amyloid-beta by targeting insulin-like growth factor 1 in microglia	H. Xing, et al.	2016	27277332	Activated microglia are capable of facilitating amyloid-beta (Abeta) accumulation via the release of inflammatory factors, thus resulting in the exacerbation of Alzheimer's disease (AD). MicroRNAs (miRs) participate in the activation of microglia, which is associated with AD. Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF1) is a neuroprotective, anti-inflammatory factor, which is able to accelerate clearance of Abeta peptides. The present study aimed to investigate the precise role of miR206 and IGF1 in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)induced microglial inflammation. The expression levels of miR206 and IGF1 were detected in 60 peripheral blood samples from patients with AD and matched age subjects using quantitative polymerase chain reaction. A dual luciferase reporter gene assay was used to indicate the relationship between miR206 and IGF1. In addition, the role of miR206 was determined by gain and loss of function experiments in LPStreated microglia. The results demonstrated that miR206 upregulation enhanced LPSinduced inflammation and Abeta release in microglia by directly targeting the 3'-untranslated region of IGF1. These effects were attenuated following treatment with exogenous IGF1, thus indicating that the miR206/IGF1 signaling pathway may be considered a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of ADassociated microglial inflammation.	3' Untranslated Regions;Aged;Alzheimer Disease/genetics/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ metabolism;Binding Sites;Case-Control Studies;Cell Line;Cells, Cultured;Cytokines/metabolism;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Inflammation Mediators/metabolism;Insulin-Like Growth Factor I/ genetics;Lipopolysaccharides/adverse effects;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Microglia/drug effects/ metabolism;RNA Interference;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism
Activation of miR-34a/SIRT1/p53 signaling contributes to cochlear hair cell apoptosis: implications for age-related hearing loss	H. Xiong, et al.	2015	25638533	The molecular mechanisms underlying age-related hearing loss are not fully understood, and currently, there is no treatment for this disorder. MicroRNAs have recently been reported to be increasingly associated with age-related diseases and are emerging as promising therapeutic targets. In this study, miR-34a/Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1)/p53 signaling was examined in cochlear hair cells during aging. MiR-34a, p53 acetylation, and apoptosis increased in the cochlea of C57BL/6 mice with aging, whereas an age-related decrease in SIRT1 was observed. In the inner ear HEI-OC1 cell line, miR-34a overexpression inhibited SIRT1, leading to an increase in p53 acetylation and apoptosis. Moreover, miR-34a knockdown increased SIRT1 expression and diminished p53 acetylation, and apoptosis. Additionally, resveratrol, an activator of SIRT1, significantly rescued miR-34a overexpression-induced HEI-OC1 cell death and significantly reduced hearing threshold shifts and hair cell loss in C57BL/6 mice after a 2-month administration. Our results support a link between age-related cochlear hair cell apoptosis and miR-34a/SIRT1/p53 signaling, which may serve as a potential target for age-related hearing loss treatment.	Acetylation;Aging;Animals;Apoptosis/drug effects/ genetics;Cell Line;Gene Expression;Hair Cells, Auditory/ pathology;Hearing Loss, Sensorineural/drug therapy/ pathology;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Signal Transduction/drug effects/ physiology;Sirtuin 1/metabolism/ physiology;Stilbenes/administration & dosage/pharmacology;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/metabolism/ physiology;Cochlea;MicroRNA;Presbycusis;Sirt1;p53
MicroRNA-494 reduces DJ-1 expression and exacerbates neurodegeneration	R. Xiong, et al.	2014	24269020	Oxidative stress is believed to be a significant cause of Parkinson's disease (PD). DJ-1 is thought to be an oxidative sensor that protects cells from oxidative insult. It was reported that the level of total DJ-1 protein was significantly reduced in the substantia nigra of sporadic PD patients, suggesting that abnormal DJ-1 expression might contribute to PD pathogenesis. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the regulation of DJ-1 expression are still not fully explored. As a post-transcriptional regulation of target gene expression, the roles of microRNAs in development and disease progression have received widespread concerns. Therefore, we hypothesized that microRNAs might participate in the regulation of the DJ-1 expression. In the present study, we found that miR-494 could bind to the 3'UTR of DJ-1. Overexpression of miR-494 significantly decreased the level of DJ-1 in vitro and rendered cells more susceptible to oxidative stress. In a MPTP mouse model, overexpression of miR-494 negatively regulated DJ-1 levels and exacerbated MPTP-induced neurodegeneration, as illustrated by the loss of dopaminergic neurons. In conclusion, upregulation of miR-494 contributed to oxidative stress induced neuronal death by inhibiting expression of DJ-1.	3' Untranslated Regions;Animals;Cells, Cultured;Disease Models, Animal;Disease Progression;Dopamine/physiology;Gene Expression/ genetics;MPTP Poisoning/ genetics/ pathology;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/metabolism/ physiology;Neurons/ pathology;Oncogene Proteins/chemistry/ genetics/metabolism;Oxidative Stress/ genetics;Peroxiredoxins;Protein Binding;Protein Deglycase DJ-1;Dj-1;Oxidative stress;Parkinson's disease;miR-494
A common variant in pre-miR-146 is associated with coronary artery disease risk and its mature miRNA expression	X. D. Xiong, et al.	2014	24447667	miRNAs are small non-coding RNAs that play an important role in numerous physiological processes. Common single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in pre-miRNAs may change their property through altering miRNAs expression and/or maturation, resulting in diverse functional consequences. To date, the role of genetic variants in pre-miRNAs on coronary artery disease (CAD) risk remains poorly understood. Here we aimed to evaluate the influence of three common SNPs in pre-miRNAs (miR-146a rs2910164 G>C, miR-196a2 rs11614913 C>T, miR-499 rs3746444 T>C) on individual susceptibility to CAD in a Chinese population of 295 CAD patients and 283 controls. Genotyping was performed using polymerase chain reaction-based restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) method. In a logistic regression analysis, we detected an association of rs2910164 in pre-miR-146a with the CAD risk; compared with the GG homozygotes, the GC heterozygotes [odds ratio (OR)=1.89, 95% confidence interval (CI)=1.06-3.36, P=0.029] and the CC homozygotes (OR=1.83, 95% CI=1.01-3.32, P=0.046) genotype were statistically significantly associated with the increased risk for CADs. As we used further genotype association models, we found a similar trend of the association in recessive model (OR=1.86, 95% CI=1.09-3.19, P=0.023). We also found that the genotypes of miR-146a rs2910164 were associated with its mature miRNA expression by analyzing 23 PBMC samples from CAD patients. Individuals carrying rs11614913 GC or CC genotypes showed 3.2-fold higher expression compared to GG genotype carriers (P<0.05). We observed no association of the other two SNPs in miR-196a2 (rs11614913) and miR-499 (rs3746444) with the CAD incidence. Our data provide the first evidence that the miR-146a rs2910164 polymorphism is associated with increased risk of CAD in Chinese Han population, which may be through influencing the expression levels of the miRNA.	Aged;Asian Continental Ancestry Group/genetics;Case-Control Studies;Coronary Artery Disease/ genetics;Female;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Genotype;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Middle Aged;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Risk;Coronary artery disease;Single nucleotide polymorphism;microRNA
MicroRNA transcriptome analysis identifies miR-365 as a novel negative regulator of cell proliferation in Zmpste24-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts	X. D. Xiong, et al.	2015	25983189	Zmpste24 is a metalloproteinase responsible for the posttranslational processing and cleavage of prelamin A into mature laminA. Zmpste24(-/-) mice display a range of progeroid phenotypes overlapping with mice expressing progerin, an altered version of lamin A associated with Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome (HGPS). Increasing evidence has demonstrated that miRNAs contribute to the regulation of normal aging process, but their roles in progeroid disorders remain poorly understood. Here we report the miRNA transcriptomes of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) established from wild type (WT) and Zmpste24(-/-) progeroid mice using a massively parallel sequencing technology. With data from 19.5 x 10(6) reads from WT MEFs and 16.5 x 10(6) reads from Zmpste24(-/-) MEFs, we discovered a total of 306 known miRNAs expressed in MEFs with a wide dynamic range of read counts ranging from 10 to over 1 million. A total of 8 miRNAs were found to be significantly down-regulated, with only 2 miRNAs upregulated, in Zmpste24(-/-) MEFs as compared to WT MEFs. Functional studies revealed that miR-365, a significantly down-regulated miRNA in Zmpste24(-/-) MEFs, modulates cellular growth phenotypes in MEFs. Overexpression of miR-365 in Zmpste24(-/-) MEFs increased cellular proliferation and decreased the percentage of SA-beta-gal-positive cells, while inhibition of miR-365 function led to an increase of SA-beta-gal-positive cells in WT MEFs. Furthermore, we identified Rasd1, a member of the Ras superfamily of small GTPases, as a functional target of miR-365. While expression of miR-365 suppressed Rasd1 3' UTR luciferase-reporter activity, this effect was lost with mutations in the putative 3' UTR target-site. Consistently, expression levels of miR-365 were found to inversely correlate with endogenous Rasd1 levels. These findings suggest that miR-365 is down-regulated in Zmpste24(-/-) MEFs and acts as a novel negative regulator of Rasd1. Our comprehensive miRNA data provide a resource to study gene regulatory networks in MEFs.	Amino Acid Sequence;Animals;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Proliferation/ genetics;Down-Regulation;Fibroblasts/cytology/ metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Library;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Membrane Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Metalloendopeptidases/genetics/ metabolism;Mice;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;ras Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Hgps;Premature senescence;Zmpste24;miR-365;miRNA
A genetic variant in pre-miR-27a is associated with a reduced cervical cancer risk in southern Chinese women	X. D. Xiong, et al.	2014	24380734	OBJECTIVE: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play critical roles in cervical carcinogenesis. Common single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in pre/pri-miRNAs may change their property through altering miRNAs expression and/or maturation. Here we aimed to investigate the influence of three common SNPs in pre/pri-miRNAs (pri-miR-26a-1 rs7372209, pre-miR-27a rs895819 and pri-miR-100 rs1834306) on individual susceptibility to cervical cancer. METHODS: We genotyped these three polymorphisms in 103 cervical cancer cases and 417 cancer-free female subjects using polymerase chain reaction-ligation detection reaction (PCR-LDR) method. Unconditional logistic regression analysis was utilized to estimate the association between these polymorphisms and the risk of cervical cancer. RESULTS: In a logistic regression analysis, we found that the rs895819 polymorphism in pre-miR-27a exhibited a significant effect on cervical cancer risk; T allele (OR = 0.68, 95% CI = 0.49-0.95, P = 0.025), and CT (OR = 0.33, 95% CI = 0.15-0.74, P = 0.007) or TT (OR = 0.33, 95% C I= 0.15-0.72, P = 0.006) genotype were associated with the decreased risk, compared to C and CC respectively. As we used further genotype association models, we found a similar trend of the association in additive (OR = 0.70, P = 0.041) and recessive model (OR = 0.33, P = 0.004). We did not detect any association of the other two SNPs in pri-miR-26a-1 (rs7372209) and pri-miR-100 (rs1834306) with cervical cancer risk. CONCLUSION: Our study provides the first evidence that the miR-27a rs895819 polymorphism is associated with a decreased risk of cervical cancer in southern Chinese women.	Asian Continental Ancestry Group/ genetics;Case-Control Studies;Female;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Genotype;Humans;Logistic Models;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;RNA Precursors/ genetics;Uterine Cervical Neoplasms/ genetics;Cervical cancer;Risk;Single nucleotide polymorphism;miRNA
miR-34 Modulates Innate Immunity and Ecdysone Signaling in Drosophila	X. P. Xiong, et al.	2016	27893816	microRNAs are endogenous small regulatory RNAs that modulate myriad biological processes by repressing target gene expression in a sequence-specific manner. Here we show that the conserved miRNA miR-34 regulates innate immunity and ecdysone signaling in Drosophila. miR-34 over-expression activates antibacterial innate immunity signaling both in cultured cells and in vivo, and flies over-expressing miR-34 display improved survival and pathogen clearance upon Gram-negative bacterial infection; whereas miR-34 knockout animals are defective in antibacterial defense. In particular, miR-34 achieves its immune-stimulatory function, at least in part, by repressing the two novel target genes Dlg1 and Eip75B. In addition, our study reveals a mutual repression between miR-34 expression and ecdysone signaling, and identifies miR-34 as a node in the intricate interplay between ecdysone signaling and innate immunity. Lastly, we identify cis-regulatory genomic elements and trans-acting transcription factors required for optimal ecdysone-mediated repression of miR-34. Taken together, our study enriches the repertoire of immune-modulating miRNAs in animals, and provides new insights into the interplay between steroid hormone signaling and innate immunity.	Animals;Blotting, Northern;Chromatin Immunoprecipitation;DNA-Binding Proteins/immunology;Disease Models, Animal;Drosophila Proteins/immunology;Drosophila melanogaster/ immunology;Ecdysone/ immunology;Gene Knockout Techniques;Immunity, Innate/ immunology;Immunoprecipitation;MicroRNAs/ immunology;Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction/immunology;Transcription Factors/immunology;Tumor Suppressor Proteins/immunology
SmD1 Modulates the miRNA Pathway Independently of Its Pre-mRNA Splicing Function	X. P. Xiong, et al.	2015	26308709	microRNAs (miRNAs) are a class of endogenous regulatory RNAs that play a key role in myriad biological processes. Upon transcription, primary miRNA transcripts are sequentially processed by Drosha and Dicer ribonucleases into ~22-24 nt miRNAs. Subsequently, miRNAs are incorporated into the RNA-induced silencing complexes (RISCs) that contain Argonaute (AGO) family proteins and guide RISC to target RNAs via complementary base pairing, leading to post-transcriptional gene silencing by a combination of translation inhibition and mRNA destabilization. Select pre-mRNA splicing factors have been implicated in small RNA-mediated gene silencing pathways in fission yeast, worms, flies and mammals, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are not well understood. Here, we show that SmD1, a core component of the Drosophila small nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle (snRNP) implicated in splicing, is required for miRNA biogenesis and function. SmD1 interacts with both the microprocessor component Pasha and pri-miRNAs, and is indispensable for optimal miRNA biogenesis. Depletion of SmD1 impairs the assembly and function of the miRISC without significantly affecting the expression of major canonical miRNA pathway components. Moreover, SmD1 physically and functionally associates with components of the miRISC, including AGO1 and GW182. Notably, miRNA defects resulting from SmD1 silencing can be uncoupled from defects in pre-mRNA splicing, and the miRNA and splicing machineries are physically and functionally distinct entities. Finally, photoactivatable-ribonucleoside-enhanced crosslinking and immunoprecipitation (PAR-CLIP) analysis identifies numerous SmD1-binding events across the transcriptome and reveals direct SmD1-miRNA interactions. Our study suggests that SmD1 plays a direct role in miRNA-mediated gene silencing independently of its pre-mRNA splicing activity and indicates that the dual roles of splicing factors in post-transcriptional gene regulation may be evolutionarily widespread.	Animals;Argonaute Proteins/genetics;Base Sequence;Cell Line;Drosophila Proteins/genetics;Drosophila melanogaster/ genetics;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Silencing;Insect Proteins/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ genetics;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional/ genetics;RNA Splicing/ genetics;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;RNA-Binding Proteins/genetics;RNA-Induced Silencing Complex/genetics;Sequence Analysis, RNA
MiR-146a suppresses tumor growth and progression by targeting EGFR pathway and in a p-ERK-dependent manner in castration-resistant prostate cancer	B. Xu, et al.	2012	22161865	BACKGROUND: Castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) is a leading cause of cancer-related deaths in elder men. This disease has limited therapeutic options and poor prognosis as the underlying molecular mechanisms are not clearly understood. Given the emerging roles of microRNA (miRNA) as a key regulator, we postulated that miRNA may play a significant role in CRPC formation. METHODS: miR-146a levels in 15 androgen-dependent prostate cancer (ADPC) tissues and 5 CRPC tissues were measured by qRT-PCR. Effects of miR-146a in cell proliferation and migration in vitro and in vivo were evaluated by MTT assay, colony formation assay, transwell migratory assay, and tumor formation assay, respectively. RESULTS: we found that miR-146a expression was significantly decreased in CRPC tissues compared to ADPC tissues. Functional analyses showed that ectopic overexpression of miR-146a in androgen-independent cell lines not only inhibited cell growth, colony formation, and migration in vitro, but also reduced tumorigenicity and angiogenesis in vivo. Mechanistic studies revealed that miR-146a repressed the expression of EGFR through binding to its 3'-untranslated region. Also, miR-146a inhibited the expression of MMP2, one of the most important genes in tumor progression. Moreover, downregulation of p-ERK expression significantly abrogated miR-146a-induced prostate cancer cell proliferation. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that ubiquitous loss of miR-146a is a critical mechanism for overexpression of EGFR in CRPC, which is crucial to better understanding the pathogenesis of CRPC.	Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Movement;Cell Proliferation;Disease Progression;Down-Regulation;Genes, erbB-1/genetics;Humans;MAP Kinase Signaling System/genetics;Male;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;Orchiectomy;Prostatic Neoplasms/ genetics/metabolism/ therapy
[Differential expression of microRNAs in the aorta of spontaneously hypertensive rats]	C. C. Xu, et al.	2008	18690400	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are genomically encoded non-protein-encoding small RNAs, which negatively regulate target gene expression at post-transcriptional level. The present study aimed to investigate whether disorders of miRNAs system were involved in the pathogenesis of hypertension in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). MiRanda, Target Scan and PicTar were utilized for predictive analysis of miRNAs and target genes. MiR-1, miR-133a, miR-155 and miR-208 were selected as the candidate miRNAs potentially related to blood pressure. The expression levels of miR-1, miR-133a, miR-155 and miR-208 in the aorta of 4-, 8-, 16- and 24-week-old SHR and age-matched Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats were detected by real-time RT-PCR. The mRNA levels of angiotensin II receptor type 1 (AGTR1a), angiotensin II receptor associated protein (AGTRAP), divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1), low-density lipoprotein-related protein 1B (LRP1B), fibroblast growth factor-7 (FGF-7), protocadherin 9 precursor (PCDH9), chloride channel protein 5 (CLCN-5), small conductance calcium activated potassium channel protein 3 (KCNN3) and thyroid hormone receptor associated protein 1 (THRAP1), which were predicted to be target genes of differentially expressed miRNAs, were further detected by real-time RT-PCR. The results obtained showed that the expression levels of miR-1, miR-155 and miR-208 in the aorta were significantly different from those in the heart of WKY rats. The miR-155 level was significantly lower in aorta of 16-week-old SHR than that of age-matched WKY rats (P<0.05), but there was no difference between SHR and WKY rats in other age groups. In addition, miR-155 level was negatively correlated to blood pressure (r=-0.525, P<0.05). Both in WKY rats and SHR, miR-208 was most abundantly expressed in 4-week-old rats, but declined significantly in 8-, 16- and 24-week-old rats (P<0.05). No difference in miR-208 levels was observed between age-matched SHR and WKY rats. Moreover, miR-208 expression in aorta was negatively correlated with blood pressure (r=-0.400, P<0.05) and age (r=-0.684, P<0.0001). Neither miR-1 nor miR-133a was differentially expressed in SHR and WKY rats in different age groups. The mRNA levels of predicted target genes were not correlated to miR-155 or miR-208 levels. These results indicate that miR-155 is less expressed in the aorta of adult SHR compared with that of WKY rats and is negatively correlated with blood pressure, suggesting it is possibly involved in the development and pathologic progress of hypertension. The miR-208 expression in rat aorta declines with aging and it may play a role in the blood vessel development.	Animals;Aorta/ metabolism;Blood Pressure;Hypertension/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger;Rats;Rats, Inbred SHR;Rats, Inbred WKY
miR-22 represses cancer progression by inducing cellular senescence	D. Xu, et al.	2011	21502362	Cellular senescence acts as a barrier to cancer progression, and microRNAs (miRNAs) are thought to be potential senescence regulators. However, whether senescence-associated miRNAs (SA-miRNAs) contribute to tumor suppression remains unknown. Here, we report that miR-22, a novel SA-miRNA, has an impact on tumorigenesis. miR-22 is up-regulated in human senescent fibroblasts and epithelial cells but down-regulated in various cancer cell lines. miR-22 overexpression induces growth suppression and acquisition of a senescent phenotype in human normal and cancer cells. miR-22 knockdown in presenescent fibroblasts decreased cell size, and cells became more compact. miR-22-induced senescence also decreases cell motility and inhibits cell invasion in vitro. Synthetic miR-22 delivery suppresses tumor growth and metastasis in vivo by inducing cellular senescence in a mouse model of breast carcinoma. We confirmed that CDK6, SIRT1, and Sp1, genes involved in the senescence program, are direct targets of miR-22. Our study provides the first evidence that miR-22 restores the cellular senescence program in cancer cells and acts as a tumor suppressor.	Animals;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 6/genetics/metabolism;Down-Regulation;Female;Fibroblasts/drug effects/metabolism;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neoplasms/ genetics/ pathology;Sirtuin 1/genetics/metabolism;Sp1 Transcription Factor/genetics/metabolism;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/metabolism;Up-Regulation
let-7-repressesed Shc translation delays replicative senescence	F. Xu, et al.	2014	24165399	The p66Shc adaptor protein is an important regulator of lifespan in mammals, but the mechanisms responsible are still unclear. Here, we show that expression of p66Shc, p52Shc, and p46Shc is regulated at the post-transcriptional level by the microRNA let-7a. The levels of let-7a correlated inversely with the levels of Shc proteins without affecting Shc mRNA levels. We identified 'seedless' let-7a interaction elements in the coding region of Shc mRNA; mutation of the 'seedless' interaction sites abolished the regulation of Shc by let-7a. Our results further revealed that repression of Shc expression by let-7a delays senescence of human diploid fibroblasts (HDFs). In sum, our findings link let-7a abundance to the expression of p66Shc, which in turn controls the replicative lifespan of HDFs.	Cell Aging/ genetics;Diploidy;Fibroblasts/metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Open Reading Frames/genetics;Protein Binding;Protein Biosynthesis;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Regulatory Sequences, Nucleic Acid/genetics;Shc Signaling Adaptor Proteins/ biosynthesis/genetics;Src Homology 2 Domain-Containing, Transforming Protein 1;cellular lifespan;let-7a;p66Shc;replicative senescence;translational regulation
Changes in microRNAs expression are involved in age-related atrial structural remodeling and atrial fibrillation	G. J. Xu, et al.	2013	23595377	BACKGROUND: Small noncoding microRNAs regulate gene expression in cardiac development and disease and have been implicated in the aging process and in the regulation of extracellular matrix proteins. However, their role in age-related cardiac remodeling and atrial fibrillation (AF) was not well understood. The present study was designed to decipher molecular mechanisms underlying age-related atrial structural remodeling and AF. METHODS: Three groups of dogs were studied: adult and aged dogs in sinus rhythm and with persistent AF induced by rapid atrial pacing. The expressions of microRNAs were measured by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Pathohistological and ultrastructural changes were tested by light and electron microscopy. Apoptosis index of myocytes was detected by TUNEL. RESULTS: Samples of atrial tissue showed the abnormal pathohistological and ultrastructural changes, the accelerated fibrosis, and apoptosis with aging and/or in AF dogs. Compared to the adult group, the expressions of microRNAs-21 and -29 were significantly increased, whereas the expressions of microRNAs-1 and -133 showed obvious downregulation tendency in the aged group. Compared to the aged group, the expressions of microRNAs-1, -21, and -29 was significantly increased in the old group in AF; contrastingly, the expressions of microRNA-133 showed obvious downregulation tendency. CONCLUSION: These multiple aberrantly expressed microRNAs may be responsible for modulating the transition from adaptation to pathological atrial remodeling with aging and/or in AF.	Age Factors;Animals;Apoptosis;Atrial Fibrillation/ etiology;Atrial Remodeling;Connective Tissue Growth Factor/physiology;Dogs;Electrocardiography;Fibrosis;In Situ Nick-End Labeling;MicroRNAs/analysis/ physiology;Myocardium/pathology/ultrastructure
Direct conversion of mouse fibroblasts to GABAergic neurons with combined medium without the introduction of transcription factors or miRNAs	H. Xu, et al.	2015	26114472	Degeneration or loss of GABAergic neurons frequently may lead to many neuropsychiatric disorders such as epilepsy and autism spectrum disorders. So far no clinically effective therapies can slow and halt the progression of these diseases. Cell-replacement therapy is a promising strategy for treatment of these neuropsychiatric diseases. Although increasing evidence showed that mammalian somatic cells can be directly converted into functional neurons using specific transcription factors or miRNAs via virus delivery, the application of these induced neurons is potentially problematic, due to integration of vectors into the host genome, which results in the disruption or dysfunction of nearby genes. Here, we show that mouse fibroblasts could be efficiently reprogrammed into GABAergic neurons in a combined medium composed of conditioned medium from neurotrophin-3 modified Olfactory Ensheathing Cells (NT3-OECs) plus SB431542, GDNF and RA. Following 3 weeks of induction, these cells derived from fibroblasts acquired the morphological and phenotypical GABAerigic neuronal properties, as demonstrated by the expression of neuronal markers including Tuj1, NeuN, Neurofilament-L, GABA, GABA receptors and GABA transporter 1. More importantly, these converted cells acquired neuronal functional properties such as synapse formation and increasing intracellular free calcium influx when treated with BayK, a specific activator of L-type calcium channel. Therefore, our findings demonstrate for the first time that fibroblasts can be directly converted into GABAergic neurons without ectopic expression of specific transcription factors or miRNA. This study may provide a promising cell source for the application of cell replacement therapy in neuropsychiatric disorders.	Animals;Benzamides/pharmacology;Calcium Channels, L-Type/metabolism;Cell- and Tissue-Based Therapy/methods;Cells, Cultured;Cellular Reprogramming/ physiology;Culture Media, Conditioned/pharmacology;Dioxoles/pharmacology;Fibroblasts/ cytology;GABA Plasma Membrane Transport Proteins/biosynthesis;GABAergic Neurons/ cytology;Glial Cell Line-Derived Neurotrophic Factor/pharmacology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Nerve Growth Factors/metabolism;Nerve Tissue Proteins/biosynthesis;Nervous System Diseases/pathology/therapy;Neurofilament Proteins/biosynthesis;Neurogenesis/ physiology;Nuclear Proteins/biosynthesis;Receptors, GABA/biosynthesis;Tubulin/biosynthesis;gamma-Aminobutyric Acid/biosynthesis;GABAergic neurons;combined medium;direct conversion;fibroblasts
The role of miR-124 in modulating hippocampal neurotoxicity induced by ketamine anesthesia	H. Xu, et al.	2015	24825585	PURPOSE: Ketamine is widely used in pediatric anesthesia. Recent studies have demonstrated that excessive application of ketamine leads to cortical neurodegeneration in neonatal brains. The present study aims to characterize the functional role of neuronal microRNA, miR-124, in regulating ketamine-induced neurotoxicity in mouse hippocampus. METHODS: Real-time quantitative PCR (RT-PCR) was used to examine the effect of high-dosage ketamine on the expression of miR-124 in murine hippocampus in vitro. Downregulation of hippocampal miR-124 was achieved by lentivirual transfection, and its effects on protecting ketamine-induced hippocampal neurodegeneration were examined both in vitro and in vivo. RESULTS: Hippocampal miR-124 was upregulated by ketamine treatment. Knocking down miR-124 in vitro reduced ketamine-induced apoptosis in hippocampal CA1 neurons, upregulated AMPA receptors phosphorylation and activated the protein kinase C/extracellular signal-regulated kinases (PKC/ERK) pathway. In the in vivo Morris water maze test, following ketamine-induced hippocampal neurodegeneration, mice subjected to hippocampal miR-124 inhibition showed improved memory performance. CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated that miR-124 played an important role in regulating ketamine-induced hippocampal neurodegeneration. Inhibiting miR-124 may provide a molecular target to improve memory performance in both human and animals suffering from overanesthetizing-related neurotoxicity.	Animals;Animals, Newborn;Apoptosis/drug effects/genetics;Disease Models, Animal;Hippocampus/ drug effects;In Vitro Techniques;Ketamine/ toxicity;MAP Kinase Signaling System/drug effects;Maze Learning/drug effects;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neurotoxicity Syndromes/drug therapy/etiology/ pathology;Neurotoxins/ toxicity;Oligonucleotides, Antisense/therapeutic use;Organ Culture Techniques;Receptors, AMPA/metabolism;Time Factors;Transduction, Genetic;Up-Regulation/drug effects;anesthesia;hippocampus;miR-124;neurodegeneration
miRNA-130b is required for the ERK/FOXM1 pathway activation-mediated protective effects of isosorbide dinitrate against mesenchymal stem cell senescence induced by high glucose	J. Xu, et al.	2015	25355277	The present study was carried out to investigate the hypothesis that organic nitrates can attenuate the senescence of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), a superior cell source involved in the regeneration and repair of damaged tissue. MSCs were treated with high glucose (HG) in order to induce senescence, which was markedly attenuated by pre-treatment with isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN), a commonly used nitrate, as indicated by senescence-associated galactosidase (SA-beta-gal) activity, p21 expression, as well as by the mRNA levels of DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) and differentiated embryo chondrocyte expressed gene 1 (DEC1), which are senescence-related biomarkers. It was also found that the senescent MSCs (induced by HG glucose) exhibited a marked downregulation in ERK activity and forkhead box M1 (FOXM1) expression, which was reversed by ISDN preconditioning. Of note, the inhibition of ERK phosphorylation or the downregulation of FOXM1 statistically abolished the favourable effects of ISDN. In addition, the investigation of the senescence-associated miR-130 family suggested that miR-130b mediates the beneficial effects of ISDN; it was found that the protective effects of ISDN against the senescence of MSCs were prominently reversed by the knockdown of miR-130b. Furthermore, the downregulation of ERK phosphorylation or FOXM1 expression decreased the miR-130b expression level; however, the suppression of miR-130b demonstrated no significant impact on ERK phosphorylation or FOXM1 expression. Taken together, to the best of our knowledge, the present study is the first to demonstrate the favourable effects of ISDN against HG-induced MSC senescence, which are mediated through the activation of the ERK/FOXM1 pathway and the upregulation of miR-130b.	Animals;Cell Aging/ drug effects/ genetics;Cells, Cultured;Extracellular Signal-Regulated MAP Kinases/ metabolism;Forkhead Box Protein M1;Forkhead Transcription Factors/ metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Glucose/metabolism/pharmacology;Isosorbide Dinitrate/ pharmacology;Male;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ drug effects/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Rats;Signal Transduction/drug effects
miR-19b attenuates H2O2-induced apoptosis in rat H9C2 cardiomyocytes via targeting PTEN	J. Xu, et al.	2016	26918829	Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion (I-R) injury lacks effective treatments. The miR-17-92 cluster plays important roles in regulating proliferation, apoptosis, cell cycle and other pivotal processes. However, their roles in myocardial I-R injury are largely unknown. In this study, we found that miR-19b was the only member of the miR-17-92 cluster that was downregulated in infarct area of heart samples from a murine model of I-R injury. Meanwhile, downregulation of miR-19b was also detected in H2O2-treated H9C2 cells in vitro mimicking oxidative stress occurring during myocardial I-R injury. Using flow cytometry and Western blot analysis, we found that overexpression of miR-19b decreased H2O2-induced apoptosis and improved cell survival, while downregulation of that had inverse effects. Furthermore, PTEN was negatively regulated by miR-19b at the protein level while silencing PTEN could completely block the aggravated impact of miR-19b inhibitor on H2O2-induced apoptosis in H9C2 cardiomyocytes, indicating PTEN as a downstream target of miR-19b controlling H2O2-induced apoptosis. These data indicate that miR-19b overexpression might be a novel therapy for myocardial I-R injury.	Pten;Pathology Section;apoptosis;cardiomyocytes;ischemia reperfusion injury;microRNA
Overexpression of miR-1260b in Non-small Cell Lung Cancer is Associated with Lymph Node Metastasis	L. Xu, et al.	2015	26618049	Lymph node (LN) metastasis is often an early event in the progression of malignant tumors and it contributes to the majority of cancer mortalities. MiRNAs play key roles in tumor metastasis. This study aimed to investigate the specific miRNAs as putative indicators of metastasis early diagnosis for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). In this study, five NSCLC cases with LN metastasis and four cases without metastasis (NLN) were enrolled for Agilent Human miRNA array. The interested differentially expressed miRNA was validated by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) in the LN metastasis (n = 46) and NLN (n = 39) groups. The microarray results revealed that three miRNAs (miR-1260b, miR-423-3p, miR-23a-5p) were differentially expressed in LN metastasis group compared with NLN group. The expression of miR-1260b was tested by qRT-PCR and the mean relative expression fold change (2(-DeltaDeltaCt)) in LN metastasis was significantly higher than that in the NLN group (3.942, 1.743 respectively, P = 1.179E-04). The patients with tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) stage III were identified more frequently in LN metastasis group (P = 1.772E-11) and with a higher expression level of miR-1260b (5.126, P = 1.147E-06). In addition, the LN metastasis cases were associated with a poorly differentiated degree (P = 0.007). The overexpression of miR-1260b in NSCLC with LN metastasis can be regarded as a specific signature for early progression and prognosis of NSCLC.	lymph node metastasis;miR-1260b;non-small cell lung cancer
The associations of nucleotide polymorphisms in mir-196a2, mir-146a, mir-149 with lung cancer risk	L. Xu and W. Tang	2015	25524943	BACKGROUND: Many studies have explored the associations between microRNAs (miRNAs) polymorphisms and lung cancer susceptibility. However, due to their limited statistical sizes, some discrepancies were discovered in these studies. This article summarized eligible studies to identify the roles of miRNAs polymorphisms in lung cancer, and analyzed the associations of polymorphisms in mir-196a2, mir-146a and mir-149 with lung cancer risk respectively. METHODS: The PubMed, Web of Science, ScienceDirect and CNKI databases were searched updated to May 30, 2014. The complete data of three miRNAs polymorphisms for lung cancer were analyzed by odd ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Finally, four studies about mir-196a2 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), two studies about mir-146a SNP, three studies about mir-149 SNP were investigated in this analysis. RESULTS: The mir-196a2 polymorphism was revealed to be associated with lung cancer susceptibility (additive model: OR=1.120, 95%CI 1.030 approximately 1.217, P=0.008; dominant model: OR=1.118, 95%CI 1.039 approximately 1.357, P=0.011; recessive model: OR=1.133, 95%CI 0.987 approximately 1.300, P=0.077). However, no relationships were discovered between mir-146a or mir-149 polymorphism and lung cancer risk. CONCLUSIONS: This meta-analysis demonstrates that mir-196a2 SNP influences the susceptibility of lung cancer. Mir-146a and mir-149 SNP do not play a role in lung cancer risk. These findings need more validation by larger studies.	Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Humans;Lung Neoplasms/ genetics;MicroRNAs;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Risk Factors;Snp;lung cancer;mir-146a;mir-149;mir-196a2
Associations of Polymorphisms in mir-196a2, mir-146a and mir-149 with Colorectal Cancer Risk: A Meta-Analysis	L. Xu and W. Tang	2016	26208586	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are non-coding RNAs which act as tumor suppressors or oncogenes. And single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in miRNA regions is one type of genetic variations in human genome. Various studies have investigated the associations of miRNAs SNP and kinds of cancers. In this article, we searched eligible studies to explore the relationships between mir-196a2 /mir-146a /mir-149 polymorphisms and colorectal cancer (CRC). A literature search of PubMed, Web of Science and ScienceDirect was conducted to identify all relevant studies. Three genetic models with pooled ratio and 95% confidence interval were used to evaluate the associations. We found that mir-196a2 polymorphism was significantly associated with CRC in Asian group (additive model: OR = 1.197, 95%CI 1.084 ~ 1.32, P < 0.001; dominant model: OR = 1.247, 95%CI 1.065 ~ 1.46, P = 0.006; recessive model: OR = 1.298, 95%CI 1.101 ~ 1.531, P = 0.002). And no associations were observed between SNPs of mir-146a, mir-149 and CRC in three genetic models. We also found CRC risk was not associated with mir-146a and mir-149 polymorphisms in population subgroup analysis. The current meta-analysis suggests that mir-196a2 polymorphism is associated with CRC, especially in Asian group. While, no associations have been found between mir-146a /mir-149 polymorphisms and CRC.	Colorectal Neoplasms/ genetics;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide/ genetics;Risk Factors;Crc;Snp;mir-146a;mir-149;mir-196a2
A Fine-Tune Role of Mir-125a-5p on Foxn1 During Age-Associated Changes in the Thymus	M. Xu, et al.	2017	28580184	Decline of transcription factor FoxN1, which predominantly regulates thymic epithelial cell (TEC) differentiation and homeostasis lifelong, is demonstrated to be casually related to age-related thymic involution. Whereas, a global role of microRNAs (miRNAs) has also been demonstrated to control and maintain TEC-constituting thymic microenvironment and to be changed in expression profile in the aged thymus. Therefore, it is urgently necessary to build knowledge regarding whether and which miRNAs regulate FoxN1 gene in the aged thymus. We primarily compared changes in miRNA expression profile between young and aged murine TECs with Mus musculus miRBase-V20 arrays (containing 1892 unique probes), and clearly identified and validated that at least one miRNA, miR-125a-5p, was increased in aged thymus. Applying miR-125a-5p mimics was able to inhibit FoxN1 3'UTR luciferase activity in a 293T cell line and to suppress FoxN1 expression in murine TEC Z210 cells. Since a single miRNA can play a fine-tuning role to regulate expression of multiple genes and a single gene can be regulated by multiple miRNAs, our result adds a single miRNA, miR-125a-5p, into the panel of FoxN1-regulating miRNAs associated with thymic aging.	Foxn1 gene;Thymic aging;microRNA-125a-5p;negative fine tune
Stress-induced early flowering is mediated by miR169 in Arabidopsis thaliana	M. Y. Xu, et al.	2014	24336445	Plants interact with their environment and they often flower earlier under stress conditions, but how such stress-induced flowering is regulated remains poorly understood. Here evidence is presented that the miR169 family plays a key role in stress-induced flowering in plants. The microRNA (miRNA) miR169 family members are up-regulated in Arabidopsis, maize, and soybean under abiotic stresses. Overexpression of miR169d in Arabidopsis results in early flowering, and overexpression of the miR169d target gene, AtNF-YA2, especially a miR169d-resistant version of AtNF-YA2, results in late flowering. The results suggest that the miR169 family regulates stress-induced flowering by repressing the AtNF-YA transcription factor, which in turn reduces the expression of FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC), allowing for the expression of FLC target genes such as FLOWERING LOCUS T (FT) and LEAFY (LFY) to promote flowering. It was shown that the expression of genes or miRNAs involved in the other flowering pathways, namely the photoperiod (CO), ambient temperature (SVP), ageing (miR156), and gibberelin (SOC1) pathways, was not affected in miR169d-overexpressing plants, suggesting that stress-induced early flowering is a novel signalling pathway mediated by miR169.	Arabidopsis/ genetics/physiology;Arabidopsis Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;CCAAT-Binding Factor/genetics;Chromatin Immunoprecipitation;Cold Temperature;Flowers/ genetics/physiology;Gene Expression Regulation, Plant;MADS Domain Proteins/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Models, Biological;Photoperiod;Plant Leaves/genetics/physiology;Plants, Genetically Modified;Promoter Regions, Genetic;RNA, Plant/genetics;Signal Transduction;Stress, Physiological;Time Factors;Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;Up-Regulation;Flc;NF-YA family.;flowering;miR169;microRNA;stress
Overexpression of KLF4 promotes cell senescence through microRNA-203-survivin-p21 pathway	Q. Xu, et al.	2016	27531889	Kruppel-like factor 4 (KLF4) is a transcription factor and functions as a tumor suppressor or tumor promoter in different cancer types. KLF4 regulates many gene expression, thus affects the process of cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. Recently, KLF4 was reported to induce senescence during the generation of induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells, but the exact mechanism is still unclear. In this study, we constructed two doxycycline-inducing KLF4 cell models, and demonstrated overexpression of KLF4 could promote cell senescence, detected by senescence-associated beta-galactosidase activity assay. Then we confirmed that p21, a key effector of senescence, was directly induced by KLF4. KLF4 could also inhibit survivin, which could indirectly induce p21. By miRNA microarray, we found a series of miRNAs regulated by KLF4 and involved in senescence. We demonstrated that KLF4 could upregulate miR-203, and miR-203 contributed to senescence through miR-203-survivin-p21 pathway. Our results suggest that KLF4 could promote cell senescence through a complex network: miR-203, survivin, and p21, which were all regulated by overexpression of KLF4 and contributed to cell senescence.	Klf4;miR-203;p21;senescence;survivin
DNA damage responsive miR-33b-3p promoted lung cancer cells survival and cisplatin resistance by targeting p21WAF1/CIP1	S. Xu, et al.	2016	27559850	Cisplatin is the most potent and widespread used chemotherapy drug for lung cancer treatment. However, the development of resistance to cisplatin is a major obstacle in clinical therapy. The principal mechanism of cisplatin is the induction of DNA damage, thus the capability of DNA damage response (DDR) is a key factor that influences the cisplatin sensitivity of cancer cells. Recent advances have demonstrated that miRNAs (microRNAs) exerted critical roles in DNA damage response; nonetheless, the association between DNA damage responsive miRNAs and cisplatin resistance and its underlying molecular mechanism still require further investigation. The present study has attempted to identify differentially expressed miRNAs in cisplatin induced DNA damage response in lung cancer cells, and probe into the effects of the misexpressed miRNAs on cisplatin sensitivity. Deep sequencing showed that miR-33b-3p was dramatically down-regulated in cisplatin-induced DNA damage response in A549 cells; and ectopic expression of miR-33b-3p endowed the lung cancer cells with enhanced survival and decreased gammaH2A.X expression level under cisplatin treatment. Consistently, silencing of miR-33b-3p in the cisplatin-resistant A549/DDP cells evidently sensitized the cells to cisplatin. Furthermore, we identified CDKN1A (p21) as a functional target of miR-33b-3p, a critical regulator of G1/S checkpoint, which potentially mediated the protection effects of miR-33b-3p against cisplatin. In aggregate, our results suggested that miR-33b-3p modulated the cisplatin sensitivity of cancer cells might probably through impairing the DNA damage response. And the knowledge of the drug resistance conferred by miR-33b-3p has great clinical implications for improving the efficacy of chemotherapies for treating lung cancers.	A549 Cells;Base Sequence;Cell Survival/drug effects/genetics;Cisplatin/ pharmacology;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/ metabolism;DNA Damage/ genetics;DNA Repair/drug effects/genetics;Down-Regulation/drug effects/genetics;Drug Resistance, Neoplasm/drug effects/ genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic/drug effects;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Lung Neoplasms/ genetics/ pathology;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;DNA damage response;cell survival;cisplatin resistance;miR-33b-3p;microRNA;p21
MicroRNA-33 promotes the replicative senescence of mouse embryonic fibroblasts by suppressing CDK6	S. Xu, et al.	2016	27059142	MicroRNAs are a large class of tiny noncoding RNAs, which have emerged as critical regulators of gene expression, and thus are involved in multiple cellular processes, including cellular senescence. MicroRNA-33 has previously been established to exert crucial effect on cell proliferation, lipid metabolism and cholesterol metabolism. Nonetheless, the association between microRNA-33 and cellular senescence and its underlying molecular mechanism are far to be elucidated. The present study has attempted to probe into the effect of microRNA-33 on MEFs senescence. Our data unveiled that microRNA-33 was dramatically down-regulated in senescent MEFs compared to the young MEFs, and ectopic expression of microRNA-33 promoted MEFs senescence, while knock-down of microRNA-33 exhibited a protective effect against senescence phenotype. Moreover, we verified CDK6 as a direct target of microRNA-33 in mouse. Silencing of CDK6 induced the premature senescence phenotype of MEFs similarly as microRNA-33, while enforced expression of CDK6 significantly reverse the senescence-induction effect of microRNA-33. Taken together, our results suggested that microRNA-33 enhanced the replicative senescence of MEFs potentially by suppressing CDK6 expression.	Animals;Cell Aging/ physiology;Cell Proliferation/physiology;Cells, Cultured;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 6/ metabolism;Embryo, Mammalian/cytology/ physiology;Fibroblasts/ cytology/ physiology;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Cdk6;Cellular senescence;MicroRNA-33;Proliferation
Identification and differential regulation of microRNAs in response to methyl jasmonate treatment in Lycoris aurea by deep sequencing	S. Xu, et al.	2016	27724902	BACKGROUND: Lycoris aurea is a medicine-valuable and ornamental herb widely distributed in China. Former studied have showed that methyl jasmonate (MJ) treatment could increase the content of glanthamine-a worldwide medicine for symptomatic treatment of Alzheimer's disease in genus Lycoris plants. To explore the possible role of miRNAs in the regulation of jasmonic acid signaling pathway and uncover their potential correlations, we investigated the expression profiles of small RNAs (sRNAs) and their targets in Lycoris aurea, with MJ treatment by using next-generation deep sequencing. RESULTS: A total of 365 miRNAs were identified, comprising 342 known miRNAs (representing 60 miRNA families) and 23 novel miRNAs. Among them, 143 known and 11 novel miRNAs were expressed differently under MJ treatment. Quantitative real-time PCR of eight selected miRNAs validated the expression pattern of these loci in response to MJ treatment. In addition, degradome sequencing analysis showed that 32 target genes were validated to be targeted by the 49 miRNAs, respectively. Gene function and pathway analyses showed that these targets such as auxin response factors (ARFs), squamosa promoter-binding like (SPL) proteins, basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins, and ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 are involved in different plant processes, indicating miRNAs mediated regulation might play important roles in L. aurea response to MJ treatment. Furthermore, several L. aurea miRNAs associated with their target genes that might be involved in Amaryllidaceae alkloids biosynthehsis were also analyzed. CONCLUSIONS: A number of miRNAs with diverse expression patterns, and complex relationships between expression of miRNAs and targets were identified. This study represents the first transcriptome-based analysis of miRNAs in Lycoris and will contribute to understanding the potential roles of miRNAs involved in regulation of MJ response.	Amaryllidaceae alkaloids;Deep sequencing;Degradome;Lycoris aurea;Methyl jasmonate;MicroRNA
miR-194 functions as a novel modulator of cellular senescence in mouse embryonic fibroblasts	S. Xu, et al.	2017	27981676	MicroRNA-194 (miR-194), a typical p53 responsive miRNA, serves as a tumor suppressor similar as p53, and has been demonstrated to play an anti-proliferation role in various human cancers. In spite of the pivotal role of p53 during aging process, the knowledge of miR-194's contribution to cellular senescence is limited. We herein sought to explore the role of miR-194 in the replicative senescence and stress-induced senescence of mouse embryonic fibroblasts. Our results unraveled that, compared to young cells, miR-194 is highly expressed in senescent cells, and extra expression of miR-194 significantly triggers the replicative senescence of MEFs and H2 O2 -induced senescence of NIH/3T3 cells, while inhibition of miR-194 exhibited the opposite effect. We further unveiled that DNMT3A was a direct and authentic target of miR-194, which has been reported to be closely associated with cellular senescence. Taken together, our data suggest that miR-194 may significantly promote the development of cellular senescence in mouse embryonic fibroblasts, which potentially occurs through inhibiting the DNMT3A expression.	Animals;Cell Aging/ physiology;Fibroblasts/ physiology;HEK293 Cells;Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells/physiology;Humans;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/ genetics;NIH 3T3 Cells;Dnmt3a;cellular senescence;miR-194
Oxidative stress mediated-alterations of the microRNA expression profile in mouse hippocampal neurons	S. Xu, et al.	2012	23443129	Oxidative stress plays a critical role in the etiology and pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders, and the molecular mechanisms that control the neuron response to ROS have been extensively studied. However, the oxidative stress-effect on miRNA expression in hippocampal neurons has not been investigated, and little is known on the effect of ROS-modulated miRNAs on cell function. In this study, H(2)O(2) was used to stimulate the mouse primary hippocampal neurons to develop an oxidative stress cell model. The alterations of miRNAs expression were detected by microarray analysis and five miRNAs were validated by real-time RT-PCR. The bioinformatic analysis of deregulated miRNAs was performed to determine their potential roles in the pathogenesis of neurological disorders. We found that H(2)O(2) mediated a total of 101 deregulated miRNAs, which mainly took part in the regulation of the MAPK pathway. Among them, miR-135b and miR-708 were up-regulated significantly and their targets were predicted to be involved in DNA recombination, protein ubiquitination, protein autophosphorylation and development of neurons. These results demonstrated that oxidative stress alters the miRNA expression profile of hippocampal neurons, and the deregulated miRNAs might play a potential role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD).	Animals;Gene Expression Regulation;Hippocampus/ metabolism/pathology;Hydrogen Peroxide/pharmacology;MAP Kinase Signaling System;Mice;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Neurodegenerative Diseases/metabolism/pathology;Neurons/ metabolism/pathology;Oxidants/pharmacology;Oxidative Stress;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism
Circulating miR-21, miR-378, and miR-940 increase in response to an acute exhaustive exercise in chronic heart failure patients	T. Xu, et al.	2016	26799589	Congestive heart failure (CHF) is a major cause of hospitalizations, morbidity, and mortality in Western societies. In addition to optimal medical and device therapy, exercise training is an important adjunct treatment option for CHF patients. MicroRNAs (miRNAs, miRs) participate in a variety of physiological and pathological processes. Dynamic regulation of circulating miRNAs during exercise in healthy persons and athletes has recently been documented, however, the response of circulating miRNAs to exercise in CHF patients is undetermined. Twenty-eight CHF patients underwent a symptom-limited incremental cardiopulmonary exercise test on a bicycle ergometer using a standardized exercise protocol of revised Ramp10 programs at Shanghai Tongji Hospital. Blood samples were collected before and immediately after an acute exercise session. RNA was extracted from the serum and selected miRNAs were determined using quantitative polymerase chain reactions. Moreover, inflammatory and muscle damage markers were determined by enzyme linked immunosorbent assays. We found that serum miR-21, miR-378 and miR-940 levels were significantly up-regulated immediately following an acute exercise while the rest were not changed. In addition, no robust correlation was identified between changes of these miRNAs and exercise capacity, muscle damage or inflammation. In conclusion, serum miR-21, miR-378, and miR-940 increase in response to an acute exhaustive exercise in CHF patients. Further studies are needed to clarify the potential use of circulating miRNAs as biomarkers of exercise adaptation in CHF patients, and if they have any use as prognostic markers of cardiovascular outcomes.	exercise;heart failure;microRNA
Genome-wide analysis of microRNAs and their target genes related to leaf senescence of rice	X. Xu, et al.	2014	25479006	Grain production of rice (Oryza sativa L.) is a top priority in ensuring food security for human beings. One of the approaches to increase yield is to delay leaf senescence and to extend the available time for photosynthesis. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are key regulators of aging and cellular senescence in eukaryotes. Here, to help understand their biological role in rice leaf senescence, we report identification of miRNAs and their putative target genes by deep sequencing of six small RNA libraries, six RNA-seq libraries and two degradome libraries from the leaves of two super hybrid rice, Nei-2-You 6 (N2Y6, age-resistant rice) and Liang-You-Pei 9 (LYP9, age-sensitive rice). In total 372 known miRNAs, 162 miRNA candidates and 1145 targets were identified. Compared with the expression of miRNAs in the leaves of LYP9, the numbers of miRNAs up-regulated and down-regulated in the leaves of N2Y6 were 47 and 30 at early stage of grain-filling, 21 and 17 at the middle stage, and 11 and 37 at the late stage, respectively. Six miRNA families, osa-miR159, osa-miR160 osa-miR164, osa-miR167, osa-miR172 and osa-miR1848, targeting the genes encoding APETALA2 (AP2), zinc finger proteins, salicylic acid-induced protein 19 (SIP19), auxin response factors (ARF) and NAC transcription factors, respectively, were found to be involved in leaf senescence through phytohormone signaling pathways. These results provided valuable information for understanding the miRNA-mediated leaf senescence of rice, and offered an important foundation for rice breeding.	Gene Expression Regulation, Plant/ physiology;Genome-Wide Association Study;Humans;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Oryza/genetics/ metabolism;Plant Leaves/genetics/ metabolism;Plant Proteins/biosynthesis/genetics;RNA, Plant/ biosynthesis/genetics
Inactivation of AKT induces cellular senescence in uterine leiomyoma	X. Xu, et al.	2014	24476133	Uterine leiomyomas (fibroids) are a major public health problem. Current medical treatments with GnRH analogs do not provide long-term benefit. Thus, permanent shrinkage or inhibition of fibroid growth via medical means remains a challenge. The AKT pathway is a major growth and survival pathway for fibroids. We propose that AKT inhibition results in a transient regulation of specific mechanisms that ultimately drive cells into cellular senescence or cell death. In this study, we investigated specific mechanisms of AKT inhibition that resulted in senescence. We observed that administration of MK-2206, an allosteric AKT inhibitor, increased levels of reactive oxygen species, up-regulated the microRNA miR-182 and several senescence-associated genes (including p16, p53, p21, and beta-galactosidase), and drove leiomyoma cells into stress-induced premature senescence (SIPS). Moreover, induction of SIPS was mediated by HMGA2, which colocalized to senescence-associated heterochromatin foci. This study provides a conceivable molecular mechanism of SIPS by AKT inhibition in fibroids.	Cell Aging;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Female;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;HMGA2 Protein/metabolism;Heterocyclic Compounds, 3-Ring/chemistry;Humans;Leiomyoma/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Myometrium/metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/ antagonists & inhibitors/physiology;RNA, Small Interfering/metabolism;Reactive Oxygen Species;Signal Transduction;Up-Regulation;Uterine Neoplasms/ metabolism;beta-Galactosidase/metabolism
High-throughput sequencing and degradome analysis identify miRNAs and their targets involved in fruit senescence of Fragaria ananassa	X. Xu, et al.	2013	23990918	In non-climacteric fruits, the respiratory increase is absent and no phytohormone is appearing to be critical for their ripening process. They must remain on the parent plant to enable full ripening and be picked at or near the fully ripe stage to obtain the best eating quality. However, huge losses often occur for their quick post-harvest senescence. To understanding the complex mechanism of non-climacteric fruits post-harvest senescence, we constructed two small RNA libraries and one degradome from strawberry fruit stored at 20 degrees C for 0 and 24 h. A total of 88 known and 1224 new candidate miRNAs, and 103 targets cleaved by 19 known miRNAs families and 55 new candidatemiRNAs were obtained. These targets were associated with development, metabolism, defense response, signaling transduction and transcriptional regulation. Among them, 14 targets, including NAC transcription factor, Auxin response factors (ARF) and Myb transcription factors, cleaved by 6 known miRNA families and 6 predicted candidates, were found to be involved in regulating fruit senescence. The present study provided valuable information for understanding the quick senescence of strawberry fruit, and offered a foundation for studying the miRNA-mediated senescence of non-climacteric fruits.	Fragaria/ genetics/physiology;Fruit/genetics/ physiology;Gene Expression Regulation, Plant;Gene Library;Genome, Plant;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing/ methods;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;RNA, Plant/genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction;Temperature;Time Factors;Transcription Factors/metabolism;Transcription, Genetic
Aging affects epidermal Langerhans cell development and function and alters their miRNA gene expression profile	Y. P. Xu, et al.	2012	23178507	Immunosenescence is a result of progressive decline in immune system function with advancing age. Epidermal Langerhans cells (LCs), belonging to the dendritic cell (DC) family, act as sentinels to play key roles in the skin immune responses. However, it has not been fully elucidated how aging affects development and function of LCs. Here, we systemically analyzed LC development and function during the aging process in C57BL/6J mice, and performed global microRNA (miRNA) gene expression profiles in aged and young LCs. We found that the frequency and maturation of epidermal LCs were significantly reduced in aged mice starting at 12 months of age, while the Langerin expression and ability to phagocytose Dextran in aged LCs were increased compared to LCs from < 6 month old mice. The migration of LCs to draining lymph nodes was comparable between aged and young mice. Functionally, aged LCs were impaired in their capacity to induce OVA-specific CD4+ and CD8+ T cell proliferation. Furthermore, the expression of miRNAs in aged epidermal LCs showed a distinct profile compared to young LCs. Most interestingly, aging-regulated miRNAs potentially target TGF-beta-dependent and non- TGF-beta-dependent signal pathways related to LCs. Overall, our data suggests that aging affects LCs development and function, and that age-regulated miRNAs may contribute to the LC developmental and functional changes in aging.	Aging/ physiology;Animals;Epidermis/immunology/pathology;Flow Cytometry;Immunohistochemistry;Langerhans Cells/immunology/ pathology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Transcriptome
miR-29b overexpression induces cochlear hair cell apoptosis through the regulation of SIRT1/PGC-1alpha signaling: Implications for age-related hearing loss	T. Xue, et al.	2016	27635430	It has been reported that the degeneration of cochlear hair cells is the typical cause of presbycusis (or age-related hearing loss). However, the molecular mechanisms that mediate cochlear hair cell apoptosis are not yet fully understood and there is no effective treatment for this disorder. MicroRNAs (miRNAs or miRs) have been increasingly shown to be associated with age-related diseases and are emerging as promising therapeutic targets. In this study, we investigated whether miR-29b is involved in the degeneration of cochlear hair cells. To examine our hypothesis, nuclear staining and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) were used to quantify the hair cell counts. RT-qPCR and western blot analysis were used to examine miR-29b/sirtuin 1 (SIRT1)/proliferator-activated receptor-gamma coactivator 1alpha (PGC1alpha) signaling in cochlear hair cells. We found that there was a significant degeneration of cochlear hair cells and a higher expression of miR-29b in aged C57BL/6 mice compared with young mice. There was also an age-related decrease in the expression of SIRT1 and PGC1alpha. In the inner ear cell line, HEI-OC1, miR-29b overexpression (by transfection with miR-29b mimic) inhibited SIRT1 and PGC1alpha expression, leading to an increase in mitochondrial dysfunction and apoptosis. Moreover, the inhibition of miR-29b (by transfection with miR-29b inhibitor) increased SIRT1 and PGC1alpha expression, while it decreased apoptosis. Taken together, our findings support a link between age-related cochlear hair cell apoptosis and miR-29b/SIRT1/PGC1alpha signaling, which may present an attractive pharmacological target for the development of novel drugs for the treatment of age-related hearing loss.	Age Factors;Animals;Apoptosis/ genetics;Blotting, Western;Cell Line;Cell Proliferation/genetics;Gene Expression;Hair Cells, Auditory/ metabolism;In Situ Nick-End Labeling;Membrane Potential, Mitochondrial/genetics;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptor Gamma Coactivator;1-alpha/ genetics/metabolism;Presbycusis/ genetics;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction/genetics;Sirtuin 1/ genetics/metabolism;Up-Regulation
Endothelial senescence and microRNA	M. Yamakuchi	2012	25436534	Abstract Cellular senescence occurs when cells lose the ability to divide and proliferate. Endothelial cell senescence is associated with vascular diseases, such as atherosclerosis. In this review, I discuss the factors affecting endothelial cell senescence. Then I describe the role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in endothelial cell senescence. Understanding miRNA pathways in endothelial senescence may lead to new treatments for endothelial dysfunction and atherosclerosis.	
MicroRNA Regulation of SIRT1	M. Yamakuchi	2012	22479251	SIRT1 is an NAD-dependent deacetylase that regulates stress response pathways. By deacetylating transcription factors and co-factors, SIRT1 modulates metabolism, inflammation, hypoxic responses, circadian rhythms, cell survival, and longevity. Since SIRT1 plays a key role in regulating pathways involved in cardiovascular diseases and metabolic diseases cancer, the regulation of SIRT1 has received intense scrutiny. The post-transcriptional regulation of SIRT1 is mediated by two classes of molecules, RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) and non-coding small RNAs. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short non-coding RNAs that regulate target gene expression in a post-transcriptional manner. More than 16 miRNAs modulate SIRT1 expression, including miR-34a. miR-34a induces colon cancer apoptosis through SIRT1, and miR-34a also promotes senescence in endothelial cells via SIRT1. This review describes the impact of miRNAs on SIRT1. The background of SIRT1 and miRNAs will be summarized, followed by the mechanism by which several key miRNAs alter SIRT1 levels, and how the RBP HuR regulates SIRT1. MicroRNA regulation of SIRT1 might affect a wide variety of pathways in humans, from metabolic diseases such as diabetes to cardiovascular diseases and cancer.	HuR;RNA-binding proteins;Sirt1;miR-34a;microRNA
MiR-34, SIRT1 and p53: the feedback loop	M. Yamakuchi and C. J. Lowenstein	2009	19221490	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression. Several studies have linked dysregulation of miRNA with tumorigenesis. The TP53 is one of the most commonly mutated genes in human cancers, and its gene product p53 activates transcription of a set of miRNA including the miR-34 family of miRNA. The miR-34 family regulates cell cycle progression, cellular senescence and apoptosis, but the targets of miR-34 are not completely defined. We recently found that miR-34a inhibits SIRT1, a gene that regulates cellular senescence and limits longevity. SIRT1 also regulates p53 dependent apoptosis through deacetylating and stabilizing p53. We also discovered that SIRT1 mediates miR-34a activation of apoptosis by regulating p53 activity. Based on this observation, we propose a positive feedback loop, in which p53 induces expression of miR-34a which suppresses SIRT1, increasing p53 activity.	Cell Proliferation;Feedback;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism/pharmacology;Neoplasms/metabolism;Sirtuin 1;Sirtuins/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/ metabolism
miR340 suppresses the stem-like cell function of glioma-initiating cells by targeting tissue plasminogen activator	D. Yamashita, et al.	2015	25627976	Glioma-initiating cells (GIC) have stem-like cell properties thought to be sufficient for recurrence, progression, and drug resistance in glioblastomas. In the present study, we defined miRNA (miR)-340 as a differentially expressed miRNA in human GICs that inhibit GIC-mediated tumorigenesis. Furthermore, we defined tissue plasminogen activator (PLAT) as a critical direct target of miR340 for inhibition. Among miRNAs screened, we found that miR340 expression was decreased in all human GICs and in human glioblastoma tissues, compared with human neural stem cells and normal brain tissues. miR340 overexpression in GICs suppressed their proliferative, invasive, and migratory properties in vitro, triggering cell senescence in vitro and inhibiting GIC-induced tumorigenesis in mouse brains. shRNA-mediated silencing of PLAT in GICs phenocopied the effects of miR340 overexpression in vitro and in vivo, suggesting a potential role for tissue factor in stem-like cell function. Taken together, our results identified miR340 as a tumor suppressor that functions in GIC to enforce PLAT blockade and ablate their stem-like functions.	Animals;Brain Neoplasms/ pathology;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Movement;Cell Proliferation;Glioma/ pathology;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Neoplasm Invasiveness;Neoplastic Stem Cells/ physiology;Tissue Plasminogen Activator/ genetics/physiology
MicroRNA-34a affects chondrocyte apoptosis and proliferation by targeting the SIRT1/p53 signaling pathway during the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis	S. Yan, et al.	2016	27247228	Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most prevalent degenerative joint disease with multifactorial etiology caused by risk factors such as ageing, obesity and trauma. Previously, it was reported that the inhibition of microRNA-34a (miR-34a) may reduce rat chondrocyte apoptosis induced by IL-1beta, whereas the molecular mechanism and the role of miR-34a in human chondrocyte as well as in OA progression remains to be determined. In the current study, using MTT, luciferase reporter assays and western blot analysis we identified that miR-34a was upregulated while silent information regulator 1 (SIRT1) was inhibited in chondrocytes from 12 OA patients compared with healthy chondrocytes from 10 trauma amputees. Overexpression of miR-34a promoted apoptosis and inhibited cell proliferation in human chondrocytes. Transfection with miR-34a mimic inhibited SIRT1 expression, which attenuated the deacetylation of p53, leading to the upregulation of Bax and downregulation of Bcl-2. Furthermore, results from the western blot analysis and luciferase reporter assay demonstrated that SIRT1 was directly regulated by miR-34a in human chondrocytes. A rat model of OA was induced through anterior cruciate ligament transection and medial meniscus resection (ACLT+MMx). The results showed that the intraarticular injection of lentiviral vector encoding anti-miR34a sequence effectively ameliorated the progression of OA. The results suggest that miR-34a has a crucial role in the pathogenesis of OA through direct regulation of the SIRT1/p53 signaling pathway and serves as a potential therapeutic target of OA.	Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Cartilage/metabolism/pathology;Case-Control Studies;Cell Proliferation;Chondrocytes/metabolism/ pathology;Disease Progression;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Oligonucleotides/metabolism;Osteoarthritis/ genetics/ pathology;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Reproducibility of Results;Signal Transduction;Sirtuin 1/ metabolism;Transfection;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ metabolism
Dicer expression exhibits a tissue-specific diurnal pattern that is lost during aging and in diabetes	Y. Yan, et al.	2013	24244599	Dysregulation of circadian rhythmicity is identified as a key factor in disease pathogenesis. Circadian rhythmicity is controlled at both a transcriptional and post-transcriptional level suggesting the role of microRNA (miRNA) and double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) in this process. Endonuclease Dicer controls miRNA and dsRNA processing, however the role of Dicer in circadian regulation is not known. Here we demonstrate robust diurnal oscillations of Dicer expression in central and peripheral clock control systems including suprachiasmatic nucleolus (SCN), retina, liver, and bone marrow (BM). The Dicer oscillations were either reduced or phase shifted with aging and Type 2 diabetes. The decrease and phase shift of Dicer expression was associated with a similar decrease and phase shift of miRNAs 146a and 125a-5p and with an increase in toxic Alu RNA. Restoring Dicer levels and the diurnal patterns of Dicer-controlled miRNA and RNA expression may provide new therapeutic strategies for metabolic disease and aging-associated complications.	Adult;Aged;Aging/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Alu Elements/genetics;Animals;Bone Marrow/metabolism/pathology;Circadian Rhythm/genetics;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/ genetics/metabolism;Diabetes Mellitus, Experimental/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Diabetes Mellitus, Type 2/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Liver/metabolism/pathology;Male;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;RNA, Double-Stranded/genetics/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/ genetics/metabolism;Retina/metabolism/pathology;Ribonuclease III/ genetics/metabolism;Suprachiasmatic Nucleus/metabolism/pathology
MicroRNA alterations in senescent endothelial progenitor cells induced by remnant-like lipoproteins	D. G. Yang, et al.	2012	23044309	BACKGROUND: Remnant-like lipoproteins (RLPs) have been demonstrated to accelerate the onset of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) senescence. Recent study has determined that microRNAs (miRNAs) were closely associated with cellular proliferation and senescence. This study aimed to examine whether RLPs lead to an alteration of miRNAs in senescent EPCs. METHODS: RLPs were prepared from plasma samples with immunoaffinity method. After 8 days of culture, EPCs were identified by flow cytometry analysis. Cells were incubated with RLPs for 72 hours. The senescent markers p16INK4a and senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-gal) were detected by Western blotting analysis and beta-gal staining assay, respectively. A human miRNA microarray containing 723 miRNAs was used to detect the expression profile of miRNAs in control and senescent EPCs. The result from the above microarray was qualified by RT-PCR assay. RESULTS: RLPs dose-dependently up-regulated the protein level of p16(INK4a) in EPCs, and RLPs at a concentration of 100 microg/ml induced a significant increase in the percentage of SA-beta-gal-positive EPCs. Of 723 miRNAs, four miRNAs expressed differentially and significantly in RLPs-treated EPCs (P < 0.05), then their changes in expression were validated by real-time RT-PCR. Among them miR-148b and miR-155 were upregulated while miR-574-3p was down-regulated significantly when compared with control (P < 0.01). CONCLUSIONS: RLPs result in the onset of EPCs senescence. Senescent EPCs induced by RLPs exhibit a different profile of miRNAs. These three miR-148b and miR-155 and miR-574-3p reach a significant difference when compared with control, indicating that microRNA might take part in RLPs-induced EPCs senescence.	Blotting, Western;Cell Aging/drug effects/ genetics;Cells, Cultured;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p16/metabolism;Endothelial Cells/ cytology/ drug effects;Flow Cytometry;Humans;Lipoproteins/ pharmacology;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Stem Cells/ cytology/ drug effects
MicroRNA-29c targets beta-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme 1 and has a neuroprotective role in vitro and in vivo	G. Yang, et al.	2015	25955795	Alzheimer's disease (AD), characterized by beta-amyloid deposition and neurodegeneration, is the most common cause of dementia worldwide. Emerging evidence suggests that ectopic expression of micro (mi)RNAs is involved in the pathogenesis of AD. There is increasing evidence that miRNAs expressed in the brain are involved in neuronal development, survival and apoptosis. The expression of beta-site amyloid precursor protein-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) is regulated by dysregulated miRNAs in the brain. The present study determined the expression levels of the miRNA-29 (miR-29) family in peripheral blood samples of patients with AD and demonstrated a marked decrease in the expression of miR-29c compared with age-matched controls. In addition, a significant increase in the expression of BACE1 was observed in the peripheral blood of patients with AD. Correlation analysis revealed that the expression of miR-29c was negatively correlated with the protein expression of BACE1 in the peripheral blood samples from patients with AD. The present study also investigated the role of miR-29 on hippocampal neurons in vitro and in vivo. The results demonstrated that the upregulation of miR-29c promoted learning and memory behaviors in SAMP8 mice, at least partially, by increasing the activity of protein kinase A/cAMP response element-binding protein, involved in neuroprotection. This evidence suggested that miR-29c may be a promising potential therapeutic target against AD.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/metabolism/pathology;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/ genetics/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/ genetics/metabolism;CREB-Binding Protein/genetics/metabolism;Case-Control Studies;Cell Proliferation;Cyclic AMP-Dependent Protein Kinases/genetics/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Hippocampus/metabolism/pathology;Humans;Male;Maze Learning;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Neurons/ metabolism/pathology;Primary Cell Culture;Signal Transduction
DNA methyltransferase 3, a target of microRNA-29c, contributes to neuronal proliferation by regulating the expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor	G. Yang, et al.	2015	25815896	Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common form of dementia in the aged population, presents an increasing clinical challenge in terms of diagnosis and treatment. Neurodegeneration is one of the hallmarks of AD, which consequently induces cognitive impairment. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a neuroprotective factor, has been implicated in neuronal survival and proliferation. The epigenetic mechanism of BDNF methylation may be responsible for the reduced expression of BDNF in patients with AD. DNA methyltransferase may contribute to the methylation of BDNF, which is involved in neuroprotection in AD. In addition, epigenetic modifications, including a combination of microRNAs (miRNAs/miRs) and DNA methylation, have been suggested as regulatory mechanisms in the control of neuronal survival. In the present study, the expression of miR-29c was determined in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with AD and of healthy control individuals. A marked decrease in the expression of miR-29c was observed in the AD group compared with the normal control group, accompanied by a decreased in the expression of BDNF. Additionally, a significant increase in the expression of DNA methyltransferase 3 (DNMT3) was observed in the CSF from the patients with AD. Correlation analysis revealed that the expression of miR-29c was positively correlated with BDNF and negatively correlated with DNMT3 protein in the CSF of patients with AD. In addition, the regulatory association between miR-29c, DNMT3 and BDNF were also examined in vitro. It was demonstrated that miR-29c directly targeted DNMT3 and contributed to neuronal proliferation by regulating the expression of BDNF, at least partially, through enhancing the activity of the tyrosine receptor kinase B/extracellular signal-regulated kinase signaling pathway. In conclusion, the present study suggested that miR-29c may be a promising potential therapeutic target in the treatment of AD.	Alzheimer Disease/cerebrospinal fluid/ genetics/pathology;Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Azacitidine/administration & dosage;Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor/ biosynthesis/cerebrospinal fluid;Cell Proliferation/genetics;Cell Survival/genetics;DNA (Cytosine-5-)-Methyltransferase/antagonists &;inhibitors/ biosynthesis/cerebrospinal fluid;DNA Methylation/genetics;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;MicroRNAs/cerebrospinal fluid/ genetics;Neurons/metabolism/pathology;Primary Cell Culture;Rats;Signal Transduction
MicroRNA-323 regulates ischemia/reperfusion injury-induced neuronal cell death by targeting BRI3	L. Yang, et al.	2015	26617783	PURPOSE: MicroRNA-323 (miR-323) has been reported to be upregulated in Ischemia/Reperfusion (I/R) injury-treated neuronal cell. However, the effect and underlying mechanism of miR-323 in I/R-induced neuronal cell death remains poorly understood. The current study was aim to investigate the role and molecular basis of miR-323 in I/R-induced neuronal cell. METHODS: An oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) model of hippocampal neuron I/R was produced in vitro. Cell apoptosis, cell survival, and the expression of miR-323 were determined after 6 h, 12 h and 24 h after OGD treatment. The up- or down-regulation of miR-323 was performed by miR-323 mimics or anti-miR-323, respectively. RESULTS: OGD induced apoptosis and suppressed survival in rat hippocampal neurons. And the expression levels of miR-323 were increased after OGD treatment. Furthermore, the up-regulation of miR-323 promoted apoptosis and suppressed survival, whereas the inhibition of miR-323 suppressed apoptosis and enhanced survival in OGD-treated neurons. Moreover, miR-323 could directly bind to BRI3 3'-UTR. Notably, the knockdown of BRI3 by BRI3 siRNA apparently abrogated cell survival and induced cell apoptosis in rat neurons. CONCLUSION: This study indicated that miR-323 might regulate ischemia/reperfusion-induced rat neuronal cell death via targeting BRI3.	3' Untranslated Regions;Animals;Animals, Newborn;Apoptosis;Binding Sites;Cell Death;Cell Hypoxia;Cells, Cultured;Gene Expression Regulation;Glucose/deficiency;Hippocampus/ metabolism/pathology;Membrane Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Nerve Degeneration;Nerve Tissue Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Neurons/ metabolism/pathology;Oxygen/metabolism;RNA Interference;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Reperfusion Injury/genetics/ metabolism/pathology/prevention & control;Time Factors;Transfection;Bri3;MicroRNA-323;ischemia/reperfusion injury;neuronal apoptosis
Sugar promotes vegetative phase change in Arabidopsis thaliana by repressing the expression of MIR156A and MIR156C	L. Yang, et al.	2013	23538384	Nutrients shape the growth, maturation, and aging of plants and animals. In plants, the juvenile to adult transition (vegetative phase change) is initiated by a decrease in miR156. In Arabidopsis, we found that exogenous sugar decreased the abundance of miR156, whereas reduced photosynthesis increased the level of this miRNA. This effect was correlated with a change in the timing of vegetative phase change, and was primarily attributable to a change in the expression of two genes, MIR156A and MIR156C, which were found to play dominant roles in this transition. The glucose-induced repression of miR156 was dependent on the signaling activity of HEXOKINASE1. We also show that the defoliation-induced increase in miR156 levels can be suppressed by exogenous glucose. These results provide a molecular link between nutrient availability and developmental timing in plants, and suggest that sugar is a component of the leaf signal that mediates vegetative phase change. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.00260.001.	Arabidopsis/genetics/growth & development/ metabolism;Arabidopsis Proteins/metabolism;Cell Aging;Gene Expression Regulation, Plant;Glucose/ metabolism;Hexokinase/metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Photosynthesis;Plant Leaves/growth & development/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;RNA, Plant/genetics/ metabolism;Seedlings/genetics/growth & development/ metabolism;Signal Transduction;Time Factors;Transcription, Genetic;Arabidopsis;Nicotiana benthamiana;heteroblasty;heterochrony;miRNAs;nutrition;phase change
Dephosphorylation of tyrosine 393 in argonaute 2 by protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B regulates gene silencing in oncogenic RAS-induced senescence	M. Yang, et al.	2014	25175024	Oncogenic RAS (H-RAS(V12)) induces premature senescence in primary cells by triggering production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), but the molecular role of ROS in senescence remains elusive. We investigated whether inhibition of protein tyrosine phosphatases by ROS contributed to H-RAS(V12)-induced senescence. We identified protein tyrosine phosphatase 1B (PTP1B) as a major target of H-RAS(V12)-induced ROS. Inactivation of PTP1B was necessary and sufficient to induce premature senescence in H-RAS(V12)-expressing IMR90 fibroblasts. We identified phospho-Tyr 393 of argonaute 2 (AGO2) as a direct substrate of PTP1B. Phosphorylation of AGO2 at Tyr 393 inhibited loading with microRNAs (miRNAs) and thus miRNA-mediated gene silencing, which counteracted the function of H-RAS(V12)-induced oncogenic miRNAs. Overall, our data illustrate that premature senescence in H-RAS(V12)-transformed primary cells is a consequence of oxidative inactivation of PTP1B and inhibition of miRNA-mediated gene silencing.	Argonaute Proteins/chemistry/ metabolism;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Line;Gene Silencing;Humans;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Phosphorylation;Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase, Non-Receptor Type 1/metabolism/ physiology;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Tyrosine/chemistry/ metabolism;ras Proteins/genetics/metabolism/ physiology
[Research on regulation of cell senescence by miRNA-34a]	M. M. Yang, et al.	2013	23600198	OBJECTIVE: To determine miRNA-34a regulated cell senescence indirectly through targeting silent mating-type information regulation 2 homologue 1 (SIRT1) in vitro experiment. METHODS: A constructed pre-miRNA -34a expression vector and a miRNA-1792 expression vector (not directly against any gene) were transfected into HEK293 and HUVEC cell lines respectively. The expression levels of SIRT1 in each cell groups were detected by RT-PCR and Western blot. The HUVEC cells were divided into different group: transfected with pre-miRNA-34a expression vector (HUVEC-pre-miRNA-34a), transfected with miRNA-1792 expression vector (HUVEC-pre-miRNA-1792), treated HUVEC cell with SIRT1 activator resveratrol (final concentration 1 micromol/L, treatment for 2 h)(HUVEC-Res), and HUVEC cells without any treatment as the control. Comet assay was applied to detect the oxidative damage of above-mentioned cells after H2O2 treatment for 2 h, and beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-gal) staining was used to detect the senescence of them in different time points after doxorubicin treatment for 2 h. RESULTS: Pre-miRNA-34a expression vector was constructed successfully by sequencing confirmation. RT-PCR and Western blot indicated that the overexpression of miRNA-34a down regulated mRNA and protein level of SIRT1 in HEK293-miRNA-34a and HUVEC-miRNA-34a cell groups (P < 0.001). Comet assay revealed that HUVEC-miRNA-34a cell group was the most sensitive to H2O2 treatment, and the DNA damage of HUVEC-Res cell group was the most minor. HUVEC-miRNA-34a cell group displayed higher frequency of SA-beta-gal staining than that of other cell groups. CONCLUSION: miRNA-34a regulated cell senescence indirectly through targeting SIRT1.	Cell Aging;Down-Regulation;HEK293 Cells;Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger;Sirtuin 1/ metabolism;Stilbenes;Transfection
Induction of cellular senescence by doxorubicin is associated with upregulated miR-375 and induction of autophagy in K562 cells	M. Y. Yang, et al.	2012	22606351	BACKGROUND: Cellular senescence is a specialized form of growth arrest that is generally irreversible. Upregulated p16, p53, and p21 expression and silencing of E2F target genes have been characterized to promote the establishment of senescence. It can be further aided by the transcriptional repression of proliferation-associated genes by the action of HP1gamma, HMGA, and DNMT proteins to produce a repressive chromatin environment. Therefore, senescence has been suggested to functions as a natural brake for tumor development and plays a critical role in tumor suppression and aging. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: An in vitro senescence model has been established by using K562 cells treated with 50 nM doxorubicin (DOX). Since p53 and p16 are homozygously deleted in the K562 cells, the DOX-induced senescence in K562 cells ought to be independent of p53 and p16-pRb pathways. Indeed, no change in the expression of the typical senescence-associated premalignant cell markers in the DOX-induced senescent K562 cells was found. MicroRNA profiling revealed upregulated miR-375 in DOX-induced senescent K562 cells. Treatment with miR-375 inhibitor was able to reverse the proliferation ability suppressed by DOX (p<0.05) and overexpression of miR-375 suppressed the normal proliferation of K562 cells. Upregulated miR-375 expression was associated with downregulated expression of 14-3-3zeta and SP1 genes. Autophagy was also investigated since DOX treatment was able to induce cells entering senescence and eventually lead to cell death. Among the 24 human autophagy-related genes examined, a 12-fold increase of ATG9B at day 4 and a 20-fold increase of ATG18 at day 2 after DOX treatment were noted. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: This study has demonstrated that in the absence of p53 and p16, the induction of senescence by DOX was associated with upregulation of miR-375 and autophagy initiation. The anti-proliferative function of miR-375 is possibly exerted, at least in part, by targeting 14-3-3zeta and SP1 genes.	14-3-3 Proteins/genetics;Autophagy/ drug effects;Cell Aging/ drug effects/genetics/physiology;Doxorubicin/ pharmacology;Genes, p16;Genes, p53;Humans;K562 Cells;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Models, Biological;Sp1 Transcription Factor/genetics;Up-Regulation/drug effects
MicroRNA-144 suppresses cholangiocarcinoma cell proliferation and invasion through targeting platelet activating factor acetylhydrolase isoform 1b	R. Yang, et al.	2014	25479763	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs are endogenous non-coding RNAs that play important roles in a wide variety of biological processes such as apoptosis, development, aging and cancer. The aberrant expression of miRNAs may contribute to phenotypic features of malignant cells, including resistance to chemotherapy. However, in cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) the correlation between miRNAs and their potential roles in CCA remains unclear. METHODS: MicroRNA profiles were analyzed in three pairs of CCA tumor specimens and non-tumorous-paired biliary tissues using Agilent microRNA microarrays. Expression of selected miRNAs was further confirmed in CCA tissues and CCA cell lines by q-PCR. The effects of miR-144 were evaluated by cell proliferation, migration, transwell, and tumorigenicity assays. Expression of LIS1 (platelet-activating factor acetylhydrolase isoform 1b) was assessed in CCA specimens and CCA cell lines by q-PCR and western blot. Targeting of LIS1 by miR-144 was confirmed by luciferase reporter assays. RESULTS: We found that the expression of 28 miRNAs in CCA tissues was significantly different from their corresponding adjacent normal bile duct tissues. We focused on miR-144 which was significantly down-regulated in CCA tissues. Reintroduction of miR-144 in CCA cell lines not only inhibited cell growth, but also significantly reduced cell migration and invasion capacities compared with controls. Luciferase assays and western blots verified LIS1 as a direct target of miR-144, and knocking-down LIS1 has similar effect with overexpression of miR-144 in CCA cell lines. Moreover, overexpression of miR-144 expression could suppress tumor growth in nude mice. CONCLUSIONS: Our results showed that miR-144 was reduced in CCA tissues and suggested that miR-144 may be an essential suppresser of CCA cell proliferation and invasion through targeting LIS1.	1-Alkyl-2-acetylglycerophosphocholine Esterase/ genetics/metabolism;Animals;Bile Duct Neoplasms/genetics/metabolism/ pathology;Bile Ducts, Intrahepatic/metabolism/ pathology;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Cholangiocarcinoma/genetics/metabolism/ pathology;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Mice;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Microtubule-Associated Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Neoplasm Invasiveness;Neoplasms, Experimental;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis
Mice that express farnesylated versions of prelamin A in neurons develop achalasia	S. H. Yang, et al.	2015	25652409	Neurons in the brain produce lamin C but almost no lamin A, a consequence of the removal of prelamin A transcripts by miR-9, a brain-specific microRNA. We have proposed that miR-9-mediated regulation of prelamin A in the brain could explain the absence of primary neurological disease in Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome, a genetic disease caused by the synthesis of an internally truncated form of farnesyl-prelamin A (progerin). This explanation makes sense, but it is not entirely satisfying because it is unclear whether progerin-even if were expressed in neurons-would be capable of eliciting neuropathology. To address that issue, we created a new Lmna knock-in allele, Lmna(HG-C), which produces progerin transcripts lacking an miR-9 binding site. Mice harboring the Lmna(HG-C) allele produced progerin in neurons, but they had no pathology in the central nervous system. However, these mice invariably developed esophageal achalasia, and the enteric neurons and nerve fibers in gastrointestinal tract were markedly abnormal. The same disorder, achalasia, was observed in genetically modified mice that express full-length farnesyl-prelamin A in neurons (Zmpste24-deficient mice carrying two copies of a Lmna knock-in allele yielding full-length prelamin A transcripts lacking a miR-9 binding site). Our findings indicate that progerin and full-length farnesyl-prelamin A are toxic to neurons of the enteric nervous system.	Animals;Enteric Nervous System/ pathology;Esophageal Achalasia/ genetics/pathology;Female;Gene Knock-In Techniques;Lamin Type A/ genetics/metabolism;Male;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Mutation;Neurons/ metabolism/pathology;Protein Prenylation;RNA Interference
DEPTOR is linked to a TORC1-p21 survival proliferation pathway in multiple myeloma cells	Y. Yang, et al.	2014	25568666	We investigated the mechanism by which gene silencing of the mTOR inhibitor, DEPTOR, induces cytoreductive effects on multiple myeloma (MM) cells. DEPTOR knockdown resulted in anti-MM effects in several MM cell lines. Using an inducible shRNA to silence DEPTOR, 8226 MM cells underwent TORC1 activation, downregulation of AKT/SGK activity, apoptosis, cell cycle arrest and senescence. These latter cytotoxic effects were prevented by TORC1 paralysis (Raptor knockdown) but not by over-expression of AKT activity. In addition, DEPTOR knockdown-induced MM death was not associated with activation of the unfolded protein response, suggesting that enhanced ER stress did not play a role. In contrast, DEPTOR knockdown in 8226 cells induced p21 expression, independent of p53, and p21 knockdown prevented all of the cytotoxic effects following DEPTOR silencing. DEPTOR silencing resulted in p21 upregulation in additional MM cell lines. Furthermore, DEPTOR silencing in a murine xenograft model resulted in anti-MM effects associated with p21 upregulation. DEPTOR knockdown also resulted in a decreased expression of p21-targeting miRNAs and transfection of miRNA mimics prevented p21 upregulation and apoptosis following DEPTOR silencing. Use of a shRNA-resistant DEPTOR construct ruled out off-target effects of the shRNA. These results indicate that DEPTOR regulates growth and survival of MM cells via a TORC1/p21 pathway and suggest an involvement of p21-targeted miRNAs.	Akt;Deptor;ER stress;Multiple Myeloma;mTORC1;p21
Downregulation of miR-146a, cyclooxygenase-2 and advanced glycation end-products in simvastatin-treated older patients with hyperlipidemia	Z. X. Yang, et al.	2016	25727911	AIM: Hyperlipidemia is a disease with abnormally elevated levels of lipids/lipoproteins in the blood, and it is regarded as an important risk factor for cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases. Statins have been found to prevent vascular diseases by reducing low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and regulation of immune responses. Here, we aim to study the expression change of immune-related microRNA and genes in older patients with hyperlipidemia after treatment with simvastatin. METHODS: A total of 25 older male patients with hyperlipidemia were included in the study and received simvastatin treatment (20 mg/day). Clinical characteristics of these patients were examined, including lipoprotein cholesterol, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein, blood routine and biochemical characters. We tested miR-146a, interleukin-1-receptor-associated kinase 1, tumor necrosis factor-receptor-associated factor 6 and cyclooxygenase-2 level by real-time polymerase chain reaction, and expressions of advanced glycation end-products, p53 and p21 were analyzed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. RESULTS: Simvastatin treatment effectively reduced total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, but had little effect on high-density lipoprotein cholesterol. High-sensitivity C-reactive protein was slightly reduced. Expression of cyclooxygenase-2 and advanced glycation end-products were significantly reduced. Furthermore, simvastatin effectively reduced the expression of p53 and p21. Significantly downregulated miR-146a, and an obvious reduction of interleukin-1-receptor-associated kinase 1 were also detected, whereas tumor necrosis factor-receptor-associated factor 6 remained unchanged. Besides, there was a significant reduction of alanine transaminase, aspertate aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase and lactate dehydrogenase. CONCLUSION: Simvastatin treatment could inhibit inflammation and senescence-associated genes in older patients with hyperlipidemia, suggesting its application in inflammatory and age-related diseases.	Aged;Cyclooxygenase 2/genetics/ physiology;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Regulation;Glycosylation End Products, Advanced/genetics/ physiology;Humans;Hyperlipidemias/ drug therapy/ genetics;Hypolipidemic Agents/ therapeutic use;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ physiology;Simvastatin/ therapeutic use;advanced glycation end-products;cyclooxygenase-2;hyperlipidemia;miR-146a;simvastatin
MicroRNAs and targets in senescent litchi fruit during ambient storage and post-cold storage shelf life	F. Yao, et al.	2015	26179282	BACKGROUND: Litchi has a high commercial value due to its bright color and rich nutrients. However, it deteriorates with the pericarp turning brown within 1-2 days after harvest. The factors that mediate litchi fruit senescence are complicated. MicroRNAs act as negative regulators involved in almost every physiological process. To understand the mechanism of litchi fruit senescence and pericarp browning at the miRNA level, five small RNA libraries and a degradome library prepared from the pericarp of litchi fruit subjected to ambient storage and post-cold storage shelf life were sequenced. RESULTS: By aligning the sRNA reads onto the litchi unigene assembly, 296 miRNAs belonging to 49 known miRNA families were first identified from litchi. In addition, 11 litchi-specific miRNAs were identified. Among these, 167 known miRNAs were identified to cleave 197 targets, and three litchi-specific miRNAs were found to have five targets. Through combined analysis of stem-loop quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and transcriptome profiling, 14 miRNA-target pairs were found to be actively involved in litchi fruit senescence-related processes, including energy regulation, anthocyanin metabolism, hormone signaling, and pathogen-infection defense. CONCLUSIONS: A network of miRNA-targets that regulate litchi fruit senescence has been proposed, revealing the miRNA-mediated regulation in senescent litchi fruit. This will aid in developing new strategies to postpone the senescence of litchi fruit and other horticultural products.	Base Sequence;Conserved Sequence/genetics;Databases, Nucleic Acid;Fruit/ genetics/ growth & development;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Plant;Gene Library;Gene Regulatory Networks;Genes, Plant;Litchi/ genetics/ growth & development;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Preservation, Biological;RNA Stability/genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Reproducibility of Results
MiR-9 promotes microglial activation by targeting MCPIP1	H. Yao, et al.	2014	25019481	Microglia participate in innate inflammatory responses within the central nervous system. The highly conserved microRNA-9 (miR-9) plays critical roles in neurogenesis as well as axonal extension. Its role in microglial inflammatory responses, however, remains poorly understood. Here we identify a unique role of miR-9 in mediating the microglial inflammatory response via distinct signalling pathways. MiR-9-mediated regulation of cellular activation involved downregulated expression of the target protein, monocyte chemotactic protein-induced protein 1 (MCPIP1) that is crucial for controlling inflammation. Results indicate that miR-9-mediated cellular activation involved signalling via the NF-kappaB pathway, but not the beta-catenin pathway.	Animals;Blotting, Northern;Blotting, Western;Flow Cytometry;In Situ Hybridization;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Microglia/metabolism;NF-kappa B/genetics/metabolism;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Ribonucleases/genetics/ metabolism;Signal Transduction/physiology;beta Catenin/genetics/metabolism
MicroRNA-related cofilin abnormality in Alzheimer's disease	J. Yao, et al.	2010	21179570	Rod-like structures composed of actin and the actin-binding protein cofilin are found in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. However, the mechanisms underlying formation of these structures and their pathological consequences are still largely unknown. We found that microRNAs 103 and 107 repress translation of cofilin, and that reduced levels of miR-103 or miR-107 are associated with elevated cofilin protein levels and formation of rod-like structures in a transgenic mouse model of AD. These results suggest that microRNAs may play an important role in cytoskeletal pathology in AD.	Actin Depolymerizing Factors/ metabolism;Alzheimer Disease/ metabolism;Animals;Base Sequence;Brain/metabolism;Cytoskeleton/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Models, Biological;Models, Genetic;Molecular Sequence Data;Neurons/metabolism;Protein Biosynthesis
Role of Immune Aging in Susceptibility to West Nile Virus	Y. Yao and R. R. Montgomery	2016	27188562	West Nile virus (WNV) can cause severe neuroinvasive disease in humans and currently no vaccine or specific treatments are available. As aging is the most prominent risk factor for WNV, age-related immune dysregulation likely plays an essential role in host susceptibility to infection with WNV. In this review, we summarize recent findings in effects of aging on immune responses to WNV infection. In particular, we focus on the age-dependent dysregulation of innate immune cell types-neutrophils, macrophages, and dendritic cells-in response to WNV infection, as well as age-related alterations in NK cells and gammadelta T cells that may associate with increased WNV susceptibility in older people. We also highlight two advanced technologies, i.e., mass cytometry and microRNA profiling, which significantly contribute to systems-level study of immune dysregulation in aging and should facilitate new discoveries for therapeutic intervention against WNV.	Aging;Immune aging;Mass cytometry;MicroRNAs;West Nile virus
MicroRNA128a, BMI1 polycomb ring finger oncogene, and reactive oxygen species inhibit the growth of U87 MG glioblastoma cells following exposure to Xray radiation	L. Ye, et al.	2015	26238021	Radiotherapy is an important therapeutic strategy for the treatment of numerous types of malignant tumors, including glioma. However, radioresistance and antiapoptotic mechanisms decrease the efficacy of radiotherapy in many patients with glioma. BMI1 polycomb ring finger oncogene (Bmi1) is an oncogene associated with radioresistance in tumor cells. MicroRNA (miRNA)128a is a brain-specific miRNA, which suppresses Bmi1 expression. The present study investigated the effects of various radiation intensities on U87 MG glioma cells, as well as the role of reactive oxygen species (ROS), Bmi1, and miRNA128a in the cellular response to radiotherapy. The response of U87 MG cells following exposure to Xray radiation was assessed using a cell growth curve and inhibition ratio. Cell cycle distribution and the levels of intracellular ROS were evaluated by flow cytometry. The mRNA expression levels of Bmi1 and those of miRNA128a in U87 MG cells exposed to Xray radiation were evaluated by reverse transcriptionquantitative polymerase chain reaction. Xray radiation did not decrease the number of U87 MG cells; however, it did inhibit cellular growth in a dosedependent manner. Following exposure to Xray radiation for 24 h, cell cycle distribution was altered, with an increase in the number of cells in G0/G1 phase. The mRNA expression levels of Bmi1 were downregulated in the 1 and 2 Gy groups, and upregulated in the 6 and 8 Gy groups. The expression levels of miRNA128a were upregulated in the 1 and 2 Gy groups, and downregulated in the 8 Gy group. The levels of ROS were increased following exposure to >/=2 Gy, and treatment with N-acetyl cysteine was able to induce radioresistance. These results suggested that U87 MG cells exhibited radioresistance. High doses of Xray radiation increased the expression levels of Bmi1, which may be associated with the evasion of cellular senescence. miRNA128a and its downstream target gene Bmi1 may have an important role in the radioresistance of U87 MG glioma cells. In addition, ROS may be involved in the mechanisms underlying the inhibitory effects of Xray radiation in U87 MG cells, and the downregulation of ROS may induce radioresistance.	Apoptosis/radiation effects;Cell Cycle;Cell Line, Tumor/radiation effects;Cell Proliferation/radiation effects;Dose-Response Relationship, Radiation;Down-Regulation;Glioblastoma/metabolism/ pathology;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Polycomb Repressive Complex 1/genetics/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Radiation Tolerance;Reactive Oxygen Species/ metabolism;Signal Transduction;X-Rays
MicroRNAs 99b-5p/100-5p Regulated by Endoplasmic Reticulum Stress are Involved in Abeta-Induced Pathologies	X. Ye, et al.	2015	26635599	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia. Amyloid beta (Abeta, Abeta) deposition and intracellular tangles are the pathological hallmarks of AD. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs, which have been found to play very important roles, and have the potential to serve as diagnostic markers during neuronal pathogenesis. In this study, we aimed to determine the roles of miR-99b-5p and miR-100-5p in Abeta-induced neuronal pathologies. We detected the expression levels of miR-99b-5p and miR-100-5p in the brains of APPswe/PS1DeltaE9 double-transgenic mice (APP/PS1 mice) at different age stages and found that both miRNAs were decreased at early stages while increased at late stages of APP/PS1 mice when compared with the age-matched wild type (WT) mice. Similar phenomenon was also observed in Abeta-treated cultured cells. We also confirmed that mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is one of the targets of miR-99b-5p/100-5p, which is consistent with previous studies in cancer. MiR-99b-5p/100-5p has been found to promote cell apoptosis with the Abeta treatment. This effect may be induced via the mTOR pathway. In our study, we find both miR-99b-5p and miR-100-5p affect neuron survival by targeting mTOR. We also speculate that dynamic change of miR-99b-5p/100-5p levels during Abeta-associated pathologies might be attributed to Abeta-induced endoplasmic reticulum stress (ER stress), suggesting the potential role of the "ER stress-miRNAs-mTOR" axis in Abeta-related AD pathogenesis.	Alzheimer's disease;amyloid beta;endoplasmic reticulum stress;microRNA-100-5p;microRNA-99b-5p
Identification of microRNAs associated with glioma diagnosis and prognosis	X. Ye, et al.	2017	28060761	The sensitivity and specificity of microRNAs (miRNAs) for diagnosing glioma are controversial. We therefore performed a meta-analysis to systematically identify glioma-associated miRNAs. We initially screened five miRNA microarray datasets to evaluate the differential expression of miRNAs between glioma and normal tissues. We next compared the expression of the miRNAs in different organs and tissues to assess the sensitivity and specificity of the differentially expressed miRNAs in the diagnosis of glioma. Finally, pathway analysis was performed using GeneGO. We identified 27 candidate miRNAs associated with glioma initiation, progression, and patient prognosis. Sensitivity and specificity analysis indicated miR-15a, miR-16, miR-21, miR-23a, and miR-9 were up-regulated, while miR-124 was down-regulated in glioma. Ten signaling pathways showed the strongest association with glioma development and progression: the p53 pathway feedback loops 2, Interleukin signaling pathway, Toll receptor signaling pathway, Parkinson's disease, Notch signaling pathway, Cadherin signaling pathway, Apoptosis signaling pathway, VEGF signaling pathway, Alzheimer disease-amyloid secretase pathway, and the FGF signaling pathway. Our results indicate that the integration of miRNA, gene, and protein expression data can yield valuable biomarkers for glioma diagnosis and treatment. Indeed, six of the miRNAs identified in this study may be useful diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers in glioma.	diagnosis;glioma;meta-analysis;miRNA;prognosis
MicroRNA expression in the aging mouse thymus	Y. Ye, et al.	2014	24956559	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been implicated in the process of aging in many model organisms, such as Caenorhabditis elegans, and in many organs, such as the mouse lung and human epididymis. However, the role of miRNAs in the thymus tissues of the aging mouse remains unclear. To address this question, we investigated the miRNA expression profiles in the thymuses of 1-, 10- and 19-month-old mice using miRNA array and qRT-PCR assays. A total of 223 mouse miRNAs were screened, and the expression levels of those miRNAs exhibited gradual increases and decreases over the course of thymus aging. Fifty miRNAs in the 10-month-old thymus and 81 miRNAs in the 19-month-old thymus were defined as differentially expressed miRNAs (p<0.05) in comparison with their levels in the 1-month-old mouse, and approximately one-third of these miRNAs were grouped within 11 miRNA clusters. Each miRNA cluster contained 2 to 5 miRNA genes, and most of the cluster members displayed similar expression patterns, being either increased or decreased. In addition, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) software and the IPA database were used to analyze the 12 miRNAs that exhibited significant expression changes, revealing that as many as 15 pathways may be involved. Thus, our current study determined the expression profiles of miRNAs in the mouse thymus during the process of aging. The results suggested that these miRNAs could become meaningful biomarkers for studying thymus aging and that the aging-related alternations in miRNA expression may be involved in the regulation of cell proliferation, apoptosis, development and carcinogenesis/tumorigenesis.	Aging;Animals;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Thymus Gland/growth & development/ metabolism;Cancer;MicroRNA;Signaling pathway;Thymus
MicroRNA-34a induces a senescence-like change via the down-regulation of SIRT1 and up-regulation of p53 protein in human esophageal squamous cancer cells with a wild-type p53 gene background	Z. Ye, et al.	2016	26523671	MiR-34a has been reported as a non-coding RNA universally expressed in normal old cells and a probable suppressor of diverse cancer cells; however, this miRNA's expression and anti-tumor mechanism in esophageal squamous cancer cells (ESCC) remains unclear. We explored these questions in three human ESCC lines, KYSE-450, KYSE-410, and ECa-109, with wild-type p53 and mutant p53 backgrounds. Through a specific stem-loop RT primer for miR-34a, we examined the relevant expression level of miR-34a in these three cell lines using real-time reverse transcription PCR (qRT-PCR). We found that the expression level of miR-34a induced by the DNA damage agent adrmycin (ADR) was both p53- and time-dependent. Following incubation with miR-34a, cellular growth inhibition was exhibited differently in the three cell lines harbored with different p53 backgrounds. Furthermore, the MTT assay demonstrated an miR-34a-related cytotoxic effect in cell growth. Senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-Gal) staining was used to examine senescence-like phenotypes induced by miR-34a. Mechanistic investigation suggested that the down-regulation of Sirtuin1 (SIRT1) and up-regulation of p53/p21 contributed to the anti-tumor mechanism of miR-34a in wild-type p53 ECa-109 cells, while neither of the apoptosis-related proteins PARP and caspase-3 caused significant changes. In summary, our findings indicated that the intrinsic expression of miR-34a was relatively low and was expressed differently among different p53 backgrounds and ADR treatment times. The anti-tumor effect of miR-34a was primarily dependent on the regulation of SIRT1 and p53/p21 protein, not apoptosis-associated proteins.	Apoptosis;Carcinoma, Squamous Cell/genetics/ pathology;Cell Aging;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p21/physiology;Down-Regulation;Doxorubicin/pharmacology;Esophageal Neoplasms/genetics/ pathology;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Genes, p53/ physiology;Humans;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Sirtuin 1/ physiology;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ physiology;Up-Regulation;Esophageal squamous cancer cell;Senescence;miR-34a;p53
MicroRNA-21 dysregulates the expression of MEF2C in neurons in monkey and human SIV/HIV neurological disease	S. V. Yelamanchili, et al.	2010	21170291	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play important roles in regulating a plethora of physiological and pathophysiogical processes including neurodegeneration. In both HIV associated dementia in humans and its monkey model SIV encephalitis we find miR-21, a miRNA largely known for its link to oncogenesis, to be significantly upregulated in the brain. In situ hybridization of the diseased brain sections revealed induction of miR-21 in neurons. MiR-21 can be induced in neurons by prolonged N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor stimulation, an excitotoxic process active in HIV and other neurodegenerative diseases. Introduction of miR-21 into human neurons leads to pathological functional defects. Furthermore, we show that miR-21 specifically targets the mRNA of myocyte enhancer factor 2C (MEF2C), a transcription factor crucial for neuronal function, and reduces its expression. MEF2C is dramatically downregulated in neurons of HIV-associated dementia patients as well as monkeys with SIVE. Together, this study elucidates a novel role for miR-21 in the brain, not only as a potential signature of neurological disease but also as a crucial effector of HIV induced neuronal dysfunction and neurodegeneration.	Animals;Down-Regulation;HIV Infections/ genetics/metabolism;Haplorhini;Humans;MEF2 Transcription Factors;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Myogenic Regulatory Factors/ genetics/metabolism;Neurodegenerative Diseases/ genetics/metabolism/virology;Neurons/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;Receptors, N-Methyl-D-Aspartate/metabolism;Simian Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome/ genetics/metabolism/virology;Hiv;Mef2c;Nmda;Siv;dementia;monkey;neurodegeneration
Quantitative and integrated proteome and microRNA analysis of endothelial replicative senescence	R. Yentrapalli, et al.	2015	26013412	Age-related changes in vascular functioning are a harbinger of cardiovascular disease but the biological mechanisms during the progression of endothelial senescence have not been studied. We investigated alterations in the proteome and miRNA profiles in the course of replicative senescence using primary human umbilical vein endothelial cells as an in vitro vascular model. Quantitative proteomic profiling from early growth stage to senescence was performed by isotope-coded protein label coupled to LC-ESI-MS/MS analysis. Some proteins consistently changed their expression during the senescence whereas others appeared as deregulated only during the late senescence. The latter was accompanied by alterations in morphology of senescent endothelial cells. MicroRNA expression profiling revealed transient changes in the level of miR-16-5p, miR-28-3p and miR-886-5p in the early senescence, decrease in the level of miR-106b-3p at the late stage, and continuous changes in the expression of miR-181a-5p and miR-376a-3p during the whole senescence process. Integrating data on proteomic and microRNA changes indicated potential crosstalk between specific proteins and non-coding RNAs in the regulation of metabolism, cell cycle progression and cytoskeletal organization in the endothelial senescence. The knowledge of molecular targets that change during the senescence can ultimately contribute to a better understanding and prevention of age-related vascular diseases.	Cell Aging/ physiology;Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells/cytology/ metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Proteome/ metabolism;Proteomics;Cellular senescence;Endothelial cell;miRNA
Can Peripheral MicroRNA Expression Data Serve as Epigenomic (Upstream) Biomarkers of Alzheimer's Disease?	S. G. Yilmaz, et al.	2016	27501295	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder and the most common form of dementia. However, biomarkers that require testing in the brain tissue pose a formidable practical barrier to AD diagnostic innovation. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are responsible for control of gene expression at the posttranscriptional level and are essential for the function of neuronal networks and neuronal survival. miRNA expression can impact the regulation of APP (amyloid beta A4 precursor protein), PSEN1 (presenilin 1), PSEN2 (presenilin 2), and BACE1 (beta-secretase 1) genes in the brain that were previously implicated in AD pathophysiology. Little is known, however, on the extent to which peripheral tissue (e.g., whole blood) miRNA variation might offer clinical predictive value for AD. Moreover, few studies have examined multiple peripheral miRNA expression data at the same time. We report here, to the best of our knowledge, the first whole-blood-based and parallel study of seven miRNAs (hsa-miR-9-5p, hsa-miR-29a-3p, hsa-miR-106a-5p, hsa-miR-106b-5p, hsa-miR-107, hsa-miR-125a-3p, and hsa-miR-125b-5p) in relation to AD susceptibility. Notably, these miRNAs are situated "upstream" to the genes implicated in AD. We measured the whole-blood miRNA expression by a real-time polymerase chain reaction in a large study sample (n = 281), comprising patients with AD (n = 172) and healthy controls (n = 109). A reduction in whole-blood expression of hsa-miR-9-5p, hsa-miR-106a-5p, hsa-miR-106b-5p, and hsa-miR-107 was significantly associated with an increased risk of AD (p < 0.05). Notably, after receiver operating characteristics curve analyses, hsa-miR-106a-5p displayed, as a predictor variable, 93% specificity and 68% sensitivity. On the other hand, the expression of hsa-miR-29a-3p, hsa-miR-125a-3p, and hsa-miR-125b-5p was not significantly different between patients and controls (p > 0.05). In conclusion, these observations warrant replication in larger samples while making a contribution to translational research, precision medicine, and biomarker literatures, by expanding the current efforts for AD diagnostic innovation to the realm of epigenomic pathways such as miRNA expression variation among patients.	
miR-497 regulates neuronal death in mouse brain after transient focal cerebral ischemia	K. J. Yin, et al.	2010	20053374	Dysfunction of the microRNA (miR) network has been emerging as a major regulator in neurological diseases. However, little is known about the functional significance of unique miRs in ischemic brain damage. Here, we found that miR-497 is induced in mouse brain after transient middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) and mouse N2A neuroblastoma (N2A) cells after oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD). Loss-of-miR-497 function significantly suppresses OGD-induced N2A cell death, whereas gain-of-miR-497 function aggravates OGD-induced neuronal loss. Moreover, miR-497 directly binds to the predicted 3'-UTR target sites of bcl-2/-w genes. Furthermore, knockdown of cerebral miR-497 effectively enhances bcl-2/-w protein levels in the ischemic region, attenuates ischemic brain infarction, and improves neurological outcomes in mice after focal cerebral ischemia. Taken together, our data suggest that miR-497 promotes ischemic neuronal death by negatively regulating antiapoptotic proteins, bcl-2 and bcl-w. We raise the possibility that this pathway may contribute to the pathogenesis of the ischemic brain injury in stroke.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Animals;Apoptosis/ genetics;Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Binding Sites/genetics;Brain/metabolism/physiopathology;Brain Ischemia/ genetics/metabolism/physiopathology;Cell Line, Tumor;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression Regulation/genetics;Infarction, Middle Cerebral Artery/ genetics/metabolism/physiopathology;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Nerve Degeneration/ genetics/metabolism/physiopathology;Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-bcl-2;apoptosis;bcl-2;bcl-w;cerebral cortex;cerebral ischemia;microRNAs;oxygen-glucose deprivation
Discovering novel microRNAs and age-related nonlinear changes in rat brains using deep sequencing	L. Yin, et al.	2015	25475536	Elucidating the molecular mechanisms of brain aging remains a significant challenge for biogerontologists. The discovery of gene regulation by microRNAs (miRNAs) has added a new dimension for examining this process; however, the full complement of miRNAs involved in brain aging is still not known. In this study, miRNA profiles of young, adult, and old rats were obtained to evaluate molecular changes during aging. High-throughput deep sequencing revealed 547 known and 171 candidate novel miRNAs that were differentially expressed among groups. Unexpectedly, miRNA expression did not decline progressively with advancing age; moreover, genes targeted by age-associated miRNAs were predicted to be involved in biological processes linked to aging and neurodegenerative diseases. These findings provide novel insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying brain aging and a resource for future studies on age-related brain disorders.	Aging/ genetics/pathology;Animals;Brain/ metabolism/ pathology;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/ genetics;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing/methods;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism/ physiology;Neurodegenerative Diseases/genetics;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Brain aging;Deep sequencing;MicroRNA;Neurodegenerative diseases
MicroRNA miR-155 inhibits bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling and BMP-mediated Epstein-Barr virus reactivation	Q. Yin, et al.	2010	20427544	MicroRNA miR-155 is expressed at elevated levels in human cancers including cancers of the lung, breast, colon, and a subset of lymphoid malignancies. In B cells, miR-155 is induced by the oncogenic latency gene expression program of the human herpesvirus Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). Two other oncogenic herpesviruses, Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus and Marek's disease virus, encode functional homologues of miR-155, suggesting a role for this microRNA in the biology and pathogenesis of these viruses. Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling is involved in an array of cellular processes, including differentiation, growth inhibition, and senescence, through context-dependent interactions with multiple signaling pathways. Alteration of this pathway contributes to a number of disease states including cancer. Here, we show that miR-155 targets the 3' untranslated region of multiple components of the BMP signaling cascade, including SMAD1, SMAD5, HIVEP2, CEBPB, RUNX2, and MYO10. Targeting of these mediators results in the inhibition of BMP2-, BMP6-, and BMP7-induced ID3 expression as well as BMP-mediated EBV reactivation in the EBV-positive B-cell line, Mutu I. Further, miR-155 inhibits SMAD1 and SMAD5 expression in the lung epithelial cell line A549, it inhibits BMP-mediated induction of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21, and it reverses BMP-mediated cell growth inhibition. These results suggest a role for miR-155 in controlling BMP-mediated cellular processes, in regulating BMP-induced EBV reactivation, and in the inhibition of antitumor effects of BMP signaling in normal and virus-infected cells.	B-Lymphocytes/virology;Bone Morphogenetic Proteins/ antagonists & inhibitors;Cell Line;Herpesvirus 4, Human/ physiology;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Signal Transduction;Virus Activation
TGFbeta-incurred epigenetic aberrations of miRNA and DNA methyltransferase suppress Klotho and potentiate renal fibrosis	S. Yin, et al.	2017	28285987	Renal fibrosis is a common pathological feature of chronic kidney diseases (CKD) and its development and progression are significantly affected by epigenetic modifications such as aberrant miRNA and DNA methylation. Klotho is an anti-aging and anti-fibrotic protein and its early decline after renal injury is reportedly associated with aberrant DNA methylation. However, the key upstream pathological mediators and the molecular cascade leading to epigenetic Klotho suppression are not exclusively established. Here we investigate the epigenetic mechanism of Klotho deficiency and its functional relevance in renal fibrogenesis. Fibrotic kidneys induced by unilateral ureteral occlusion (UUO) displayed marked Klotho suppression and the promoter hypermethylation. These abnormalities were likely due to deregulated transforming growth factor-beta (TGFbeta) since TGFbeta alone caused the similar epigenetic aberrations in cultured renal cells and TGFbeta blockade prevented the alterations in UUO kidney. Further investigation revealed that TGFbeta enhanced DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) 1 and DNMT3a via inhibiting miR-152 and miR-30a in both renal cells and fibrotic kidneys. Accordingly the blockade of either TGFbeta signaling or DNMT1/3a activities significantly recovered the Klotho loss and attenuated pro-fibrotic protein expression and renal fibrosis. Moreover, Klotho knockdown by RNA interferences abolished the anti-fibrotic effects of DNMT inhibition in both TGFbeta-treated renal cell and UUO kidney, indicating that TGFbeta-mediated miR-152/30a inhibitions, DNMT1/3a aberrations and subsequent Klotho loss constitute a critical regulatory loop that eliminates Klotho's anti-fibrotic activities and potentiates renal fibrogenesis. Thus, our study elaborates a novel epigenetic cascade of renal fibrogenesis and reveals the potential therapeutic targets for treating the renal fibrosis-associated kidney diseases.	DNA methylation;Klotho;Renal fibrosis;TGFbeta;miRNA
miR-320a mediates doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity by targeting VEGF signal pathway	Z. Yin, et al.	2016	26837315	BACKGROUND: Vascular homeostasis abnormalities may involve in doxorubicin induced cardiotoxicity. METHODS: Enhanced cardiac miR-320a expression, reduced cardiac microvessel density and impaired cardiac function were observed in mice treated by anthracycline doxorubicin. To further explore the role of miR-320a in doxorubicin induced cardiotoxicity, microRNA mimics/inhibitor in vitro and rAAV administration in vivo were employed in mice. RESULTS: Knockdown of miR-320a not only resulted in enhanced proliferation and inhibited apoptosis in cultured endothelial cells, but also attenuated cardiac abnormalities induced by doxorubicin. On the contrary, overexpression of miR-320a enhanced apoptosis in vitro, and aggravated vessel abnormalities in heart and subsequent cardiac dysfunction in mice. Furthermore, Western blot assays showed that VEGF-A was a potential target of miR-320a, which was verified by anti-Ago2 co-immunoprecipitation. Moreover, as same as miR-320a, siRNA against VEGF-A reinforced doxorubicin induced endothelial cells injury. Finally, the negative effects of miR-320a on vascular homeostasis and cardiac function were alleviated by VEGF-A re-expression in doxorubicin treated mice. CONCLUSION: Our observations demonstrate that miR-320a play important roles in doxorubicin induced cardiotoxicity via vessel homeostasis in heart and thus, inhibition of miR-320a may be applied to the treatment of cardiac dysfunction induced by anthracycline.	Animals;Apoptosis;Cardiotoxicity;Cell Line;Cell Proliferation;Disease Models, Animal;Doxorubicin;Endothelial Cells/ metabolism/pathology;Gene Expression Regulation;Heart Diseases/chemically induced/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells/metabolism;Humans;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Myocytes, Cardiac/ metabolism/pathology;Neovascularization, Physiologic;RNA Interference;Signal Transduction;Transfection;Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor A/genetics/ metabolism;Vegf-a;miR-320a;vascular homeostasis
Expression patterns of micro-RNAs 146a, 181a, and 155 in subacute sclerosing panencephalitis	U. Yis, et al.	2015	24789113	Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis is caused by persistent brain infection of mutated virus, showing inflammation, neurodegeneration, and demyelination. Although many factors are emphasized in the pathogenesis of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis, the exact mechanism of neurodegeneration remains unknown. Micro-RNAs are small, noncoding RNAs that regulate gene expression at the posttranscriptional levels. Micro-RNAs are essential for normal immune system development; besides they are also implicated in the pathogenesis of many chronic inflammatory disorders. The aim of this study is to investigate the expression patterns of micro-RNAs 146a, 181a, and 155 in peripheral blood mononuclear cells of patients with subacute sclerosing panencephalitis. We enrolled 39 patients with subacute sclerosing panencephalitis and 41 healthy controls. Quantitative analysis of micro-RNAs 146a, 181a, and 155 were performed using specific stem-loop primers followed by real-time polymerase chain reaction. All of 3 micro-RNAs were upregulated in subacute sclerosing panencephalitis patients. In addition, the level of micro-RNA 155 expression was higher in stage 3 patients. But, micro-RNA 146a and 181a expression levels showed no association or correlation with clinically relevant data. Alteration of peripheral blood mononuclear cell micro-RNAs in subacute sclerosing panencephalitis may shed new light on the pathogenesis of disease and may contribute to the aberrant systemic rise in mRNA levels in subacute sclerosing panencephalitis.	Adolescent;Child;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/ metabolism;Subacute Sclerosing Panencephalitis/ genetics/ metabolism;Up-Regulation/ genetics;micro-RNA 146a;micro-RNA 155;micro-RNA 181a;subacute sclerosing panencephalitis
The hsa-miR-5787 represses cellular growth by targeting eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5 (eIF5) in fibroblasts	H. Yoo, et al.	2011	22062548	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that regulate diverse biological processes. We cloned novel small RNA from human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) and termed microRNA-5787 (hsa-miR-5787) that met the criteria for a miRNA. The level of miR-5787 was elevated in senescent fibroblasts. Based on the target prediction algorithm and results that were obtained, we find that eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5 (eIF5) is a target of miR-5787. Similar to the over-expression of miR-5787, we showed that repression of eIF5 in fibroblasts negatively affected cell growth. Therefore, we propose that the miR-5787 represses cell growth, in part, by targeting eIF5.	Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Fibroblasts/metabolism/physiology;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Humans;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/cytology/metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Peptide Initiation Factors/ genetics;RNA-Binding Proteins/ genetics;Up-Regulation
Discovery and characterization of miRNA during cellular senescence in bone marrow-derived human mesenchymal stem cells	J. K. Yoo, et al.	2014	25087724	Cellular senescence is an irreversible cell cycle arrest in which specific mRNAs and miRNAs are involved in senescence progression. miRNAs interact with specific mRNAs to regulate various cellular mechanisms, including metabolism, proliferation, apoptosis, senescence and differentiation. In this study, we identify and characterize miRNAs during cellular senescence in mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs). Using previously reported miRNAs, expression profiling of 23 miRNAs was performed using real-time PCR analysis. Among these miRNAs, 19 miRNAs showed upregulated expression patterns in senescent MSCs compared with young MSCs, and 5 miRNAs were downregulated. These miRNAs have not been previously identified as being related to cellular senescence but seem to be related. miR-103-2*, miR-140-5p and miR-330-5p are highly upregulated, while miR-29b and miR-199b-5p are significantly downregulated in senescent MSCs. We identify unique functions of 5 miRNAs and predict putative target genes of 5 miRNAs using our previous report. Among them, miR-199b-5p directly suppressed LAMC1 expression, as shown in a luciferase assay. miR-199b-5p significantly regulates translational activity but does not control post-transcriptional activity. Likewise, miR-199b-5p modulates LAMC networks, which demonstrates the resulting phenomenon during cellular senescence, namely, that miR-199b-5p indirectly regulates cellular senescence in MSCs.	Cell Aging;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;Gene Expression Regulation;Genes, Reporter;HeLa Cells;Humans;Laminin/genetics/metabolism;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Phenotype;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction;Time Factors;Transfection;Cellular senescence;Lamc1;Msc;miRNA
MicroRNAs in brain cholesterol metabolism and their implications for Alzheimer's disease	H. Yoon, et al.	2016	27155217	Cholesterol is important for various neuronal functions in the brain. Brain has elaborate regulatory mechanisms to control cholesterol metabolism that are distinct from the mechanisms in periphery. Interestingly, dysregulation of the cholesterol metabolism is strongly associated with a number of neurodegenerative diseases. MicroRNAs are short non-coding RNAs acting as post-transcriptional gene regulators. Recently, several microRNAs are demonstrated to be involved in regulating cholesterol metabolism in the brain. This article reviews the regulatory mechanisms of cellular cholesterol homeostasis in the brain. In addition, we discuss the role of microRNAs in brain cholesterol metabolism and their potential implications for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. This article is part of a special issue entitled: MicroRNAs and lipid/energy metabolism and related diseases edited by Carlos Fernandez-Hernando and Yajaira Suarez.	Alzheimer's disease;Central nervous system;Cholesterol metabolism;Lipid metabolism;MicroRNA
AUF1 promotes let-7b loading on Argonaute 2	J. H. Yoon, et al.	2015	26253535	Eukaryotic gene expression is tightly regulated post-transcriptionally by RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) and microRNAs. The RBP AU-rich-binding factor 1 (AUF1) isoform p37 was found to have high affinity for the microRNA let-7b in vitro (Kd = approximately 6 nM) in cells. Ribonucleoprotein immunoprecipitation, in vitro association, and single-molecule-binding analyses revealed that AUF1 promoted let-7b loading onto Argonaute 2 (AGO2), the catalytic component of the RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC). In turn, AGO2-let-7 triggered target mRNA decay. Our findings uncover a novel mechanism by which AUF1 binding and transfer of microRNA let-7 to AGO2 facilitates let-7-elicited gene silencing.	Animals;Argonaute Proteins/ metabolism;Cells, Cultured;Gene Silencing/ physiology;HeLa Cells;Heterogeneous-Nuclear Ribonucleoprotein D/genetics/ metabolism;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Protein Binding;RNA Stability/physiology;Argonaute;Risc;hnRNP D;microRNA;ribonucleoprotein complex
MS2-TRAP (MS2-tagged RNA affinity purification): tagging RNA to identify associated miRNAs	J. H. Yoon, et al.	2012	22813890	Cellular transcripts of all types, including coding messenger (m)RNAs and noncoding (nc)RNAs, are subject to extensive post-transcriptional regulation. Among the factors that elicit post-transcriptional control, microRNAs (miRNAs) have emerged as a major class of small regulatory RNAs. Since RNA-RNA interactions can be modeled computationally, several excellent programs have been developed to predict the interaction of miRNAs with target transcripts. However, many such predictions are not realized for different reasons, including absent or low-abundance expression of the miRNA in the cell, the existence of competing factors or conformational changes masking the microRNA site, and the possibility that target transcripts are not present in the prediction databases, as is the case for long ncRNAs. Here, we provide a systematic approach termed MS2-TRAP (tagged RNA affinity purification) for identifying miRNAs associated with a target transcript in the cellular context. We illustrate the use of this methodology by identifying microRNAs that associate with a long intergenic (li)ncRNA, based on the expression of the lincRNA tagged with MS2 RNA hairpins (lincRNA-p21-MS2) and the concomitant expression of a fusion protein recognizing the MS2 RNA hairpins, MS2-GST. After affinity pulldown of the ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complex comprising [MS2-GST/lincRNA-p21-MS2], the RNA in the pulldown material was isolated and reverse transcribed (RT). Subsequent assessment of the microRNAs present in the pulldown complex by using real-time quantitative (q)PCR analysis led to the identification of bona fide miRNAs that interact with and control the abundance of lincRNA-p21. We describe alternative designs and applications of this approach, and discuss its implications in deciphering post-transcriptional gene regulatory schemes.	Chromatography, Affinity;Computational Biology/ methods;Gene Expression Regulation;Gene Regulatory Networks;Humans;MicroRNAs/chemistry/genetics;RNA/chemistry/genetics;RNA, Long Noncoding/chemistry/genetics;RNA, Messenger/chemistry/genetics
Conditional expression of microRNA against E-selectin inhibits leukocyte-endothelial adhesive interaction under inflammatory condition	K. Yoshizaki, et al.	2008	18471997	Human E-selectin, an endothelial adhesion molecule, is induced in the brain arteries by cerebral ischemia and participates in the infiltration of leukocytes that cause inflammatory reaction leading to brain damage. To prevent leukocyte infiltration in the brain, we designed gene therapeutic constructs to suppress E-selectin expression. The constructs were composed of microRNAs (miR-E1 and miR-E2) complementary to the human E-selectin cDNA, which were directed by a minimum cis-element of the human E-selectin promoter. Transfection in human aorta endothelial cells (HAECs) with these constructs revealed that the E-selectin promoter was sufficiently activated in response to tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and miR-E1 and miR-E2 could suppress E-selectin expression resulting in the significant inhibition of leukocyte adhesion. These results suggested that the combination of the E-selectin promoter and microRNAs could allow the restricted expression of transgenes in activated endothelial cells and diminish leukocyte recruitment.	Aorta/cytology;Cell Adhesion/genetics;Cells, Cultured;E-Selectin/ genetics;Endothelium, Vascular/cytology/ immunology;Gene Expression;Humans;Inflammation/ immunology;Leukocytes/ immunology;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Promoter Regions, Genetic;Transfection;Transgenes;Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha/metabolism
Single-stranded RNAs use RNAi to potently and allele-selectively inhibit mutant huntingtin expression	D. Yu, et al.	2012	22939619	Mutant huntingtin (HTT) protein causes Huntington disease (HD), an incurable neurological disorder. Silencing mutant HTT using nucleic acids would eliminate the root cause of HD. Developing nucleic acid drugs is challenging, and an ideal clinical approach to gene silencing would combine the simplicity of single-stranded antisense oligonucleotides with the efficiency of RNAi. Here, we describe RNAi by single-stranded siRNAs (ss-siRNAs). ss-siRNAs are potent (>100-fold more than unmodified RNA) and allele-selective (>30-fold) inhibitors of mutant HTT expression in cells derived from HD patients. Strategic placement of mismatched bases mimics micro-RNA recognition and optimizes discrimination between mutant and wild-type alleles. ss-siRNAs require Argonaute protein and function through the RNAi pathway. Intraventricular infusion of ss-siRNA produced selective silencing of the mutant HTT allele throughout the brain in a mouse HD model. These data demonstrate that chemically modified ss-siRNAs function through the RNAi pathway and provide allele-selective compounds for clinical development.	Animals;Brain/metabolism;Cell Line;Disease Models, Animal;Humans;Huntingtin Protein;Huntington Disease/ genetics/ therapy;Mice;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ genetics;Oligodeoxyribonucleotides, Antisense/genetics;RNA Interference;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics/ metabolism
Age-related changes in mesenchymal stem cells derived from rhesus macaque bone marrow	J. M. Yu, et al.	2011	20969724	The regeneration potential of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) diminishes with advanced age and this diminished potential is associated with changes in cellular functions. This study compared MSCs isolated from the bone marrow of rhesus monkeys (rBMSCs) in three age groups: young (< 5 years), middle (8-10 years), and old (> 12 years). The effects of aging on stem cell properties and indicators of stem cell fitness such as proliferation, differentiation, circadian rhythms, stress response proteins, miRNA expression, and global histone modifications in rBMSCs were analyzed. rBMSCs demonstrated decreased capacities for proliferation and differentiation as a function of age. The production of heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) and heat shock factor 1 (HSF1) were also reduced with increasing age. The level of a core circadian protein, Rev-erb alpha, was significantly increased in rBMSCs from old animals. Furthermore, analysis of miRNA expression profiles revealed an up-regulation of mir-766 and mir-558 and a down-regulation of mir-let-7f, mir-125b, mir-222, mir-199-3p, mir-23a, and mir-221 in old rBMSCs compare to young rBMSCs. However, there were no significant age-related changes in the global histone modification profiles of the four histone core proteins: H2A, H2B, H3, and H4 on rBMSCs. These changes represent novel insights into the aging process and could have implications regarding the potential for autologous stem cells therapy in older patients.	Age Factors;Aging/genetics/ metabolism;Animals;Bone Marrow/physiology;Bone Marrow Cells/cytology/physiology;Cell Aging/ physiology;Cell Differentiation/physiology;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Circadian Rhythm/physiology;Circadian Rhythm Signaling Peptides and Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Down-Regulation/physiology;Female;Gene Expression;Heat-Shock Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Histones/genetics/metabolism;In Vitro Techniques;Macaca mulatta/ genetics/metabolism;Male;Mesenchymal Stem Cell Transplantation;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/cytology/ physiology;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Up-Regulation/physiology
Association of miR-196a2, miR-27a, and miR-499 polymorphisms with isolated congenital heart disease in a Chinese population	K. Yu, et al.	2016	27813602	We hypothesized that single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in certain microRNAs contribute to congenital heart disease (CHD) phenotypes. Five hundred and seventy-three subjects were enrolled in this study. DNA extracted from peripheral blood cells was used for SNP genotyping of miR-196a2 (rs11614913), miR-27a (rs11671784, rs895819), and miR-499 (rs3746444). Allele and genotype association analyses were performed to evaluate the correlation between certain microRNA SNPs and three phenotypes of isolated CHD: atrial septal defect (ASD), ventricular septal defect (VSD), and patent ductus arteriosus (PDA). All the participants carried a homozygous CC variant of miR-27a (rs11671784). The homozygous CC variant of miR-196a2 (rs11614913, T>C) was negatively associated with ASD compared with the wild-type TT variant (OR = 0.379, 95%CI = 0.209-0.686, P = 0.001). The miR-196a2 C allele was negatively associated with ASD compared with the T allele (OR = 0.646, 95%CI = 0.491-0.849, P = 0.002). The statistically significant results were further confirmed by dominant and recessive model assays. SNPs of miR-27a (rs895819, T>C) and miR-499 (rs3746444, A>G) showed diverse association with ASD, VSD, or PDA, but the differences were not statistically significant. The rs11614913 (T>C) SNP of miR-196a2 is associated with ASD, and the homozygous CC variant and the C allele are protective factors associated with ASD. The homozygous CC variant and the C allele of the rs11614913 (T>C) SNP of miR-196a2 are associated with a significantly reduced risk of ASD.	Adult;Asian Continental Ancestry Group/ genetics;Case-Control Studies;Female;Gene Frequency/genetics;Genetic Association Studies;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Heart Defects, Congenital/ genetics;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide/ genetics
MicroRNA-141-3p plays a role in human mesenchymal stem cell aging by directly targeting ZMPSTE24	K. R. Yu, et al.	2013	24101728	Human mesenchymal stem cell (hMSC) aging may lead to a reduced tissue regeneration capacity and a decline in physiological functions. However, the molecular mechanisms controlling hMSC aging in the context of prelamin A accumulation are not completely understood. In this study, we demonstrate that the accumulation of prelamin A in the nuclear envelope results in cellular senescence and potential downstream regulatory mechanisms responsible for prelamin A accumulation in hMSCs. We show for the first time that ZMPSTE24, which is involved in the post-translational maturation of lamin A, is largely responsible for the prelamin A accumulation related to cellular senescence in hMSCs. Direct binding of miR-141-3p to the 3'UTR of ZMPSTE24 transcripts was confirmed using a 3'UTR-luciferase reporter assay. We also found that miR-141-3p, which is overexpressed during senescence as a result of epigenetic regulation, is able to decrease ZMPSTE24 expression levels, and leads to an upregulation of prelamin A in hMSCs. This study provides new insights into mechanisms regulating MSC aging and may have implications for therapeutic application to reduce age-associated MSC pool exhaustion.	3' Untranslated Regions;Cell Aging/genetics;Epigenesis, Genetic;Gene Expression;Genes, Reporter;Humans;Lamin Type A;Luciferases/genetics/metabolism;Membrane Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/cytology/ metabolism;Metalloendopeptidases/ genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Nuclear Envelope/metabolism;Nuclear Proteins/ genetics/metabolism;Primary Cell Culture;Protein Precursors/ genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction;Aging;Histone modification;Mesenchymal stem cells;Prelamin A accumulation;Zmpste24;miRNA-141-3p
The TMEM106B locus and TDP-43 pathology in older persons without FTLD	L. Yu, et al.	2015	25653292	OBJECTIVE: To determine the independent association of the TMEM106B variants with transactive response DNA binding protein 43 (TDP-43) pathology in older persons without frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) and to explore functional pathways that link the risk variants to the pathology, including a GRN mRNA pathway. METHODS: Data came from 544 autopsied participants without FTLD in 2 community-based studies of aging. Participants underwent uniform neuropathologic evaluations, including TDP-43 cytoplasmic inclusions. We examined the association of TMEM106B variants with a semiquantitative measure of TDP-43 pathology in a series of regression analysis. We explored potential pathways by leveraging genetic, brain DNA methylation, miRNA, and transcriptomic data collected from this same group of participants. RESULTS: TDP-43 pathology was identified in 51.7% of the participants. The index single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), rs1990622(A), was associated with more advanced TDP-43 pathology. Top hits from fine mapping of the locus were in linkage disequilibrium of the index SNP. The association remained significant after adjustment for other neuropathologies including Alzheimer disease and hippocampal sclerosis (odds ratio = 1.351, 95% confidence interval = 1.068-1.709, p = 0.012). GRN expression was upregulated in rs1990622(AA/AG) carriers, and was associated with more advanced TDP-43 pathology. The TMEM106B variants were associated with lower level of DNA methylation in an active enhancer in GRN. CONCLUSIONS: Common variants in TMEM106B serve as a distinct risk factor for TDP-43 pathology in older persons without FTLD. The role of GRN expression and epigenetic mechanisms associating TMEM106B in the accumulation of TDP-43 in older persons require further study.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Aging/ genetics/pathology;Cohort Studies;DNA-Binding Proteins/genetics;Female;Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration;Genetic Loci/ genetics;Humans;Male;Membrane Proteins/ genetics;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ genetics;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide/genetics;TDP-43 Proteinopathies/diagnosis/ genetics
Upregulated sirtuin 1 by miRNA-34a is required for smooth muscle cell differentiation from pluripotent stem cells	X. Yu, et al.	2015	25526086	microRNA-34a (miR-34a) and sirtuin 1 (SirT1) have been extensively studied in tumour biology and longevity/aging, but little is known about their functional roles in smooth muscle cell (SMC) differentiation from pluripotent stem cells. Using well-established SMC differentiation models, we have demonstrated that miR-34a has an important role in SMC differentiation from murine and human embryonic stem cells. Surprisingly, deacetylase sirtuin 1 (SirT1), one of the top predicted targets, was positively regulated by miR-34a during SMC differentiation. Mechanistically, we demonstrated that miR-34a promoted differentiating stem cells' arrest at G0/G1 phase and observed a significantly decreased incorporation of miR-34a and SirT1 RNA into Ago2-RISC complex upon SMC differentiation. Importantly, we have identified SirT1 as a transcriptional activator in the regulation of SMC gene programme. Finally, our data showed that SirT1 modulated the enrichment of H3K9 tri-methylation around the SMC gene-promoter regions. Taken together, our data reveal a specific regulatory pathway that miR-34a positively regulates its target gene SirT1 in a cellular context-dependent and sequence-specific manner and suggest a functional role for this pathway in SMC differentiation from stem cells in vitro and in vivo.	Animals;Cell Differentiation;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Histones/metabolism;Humans;Methylation;Mice;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Muscle, Smooth/cytology/ physiology;Pluripotent Stem Cells/metabolism/ physiology;Sirtuin 1/ genetics;Transcriptional Activation;Up-Regulation
Loss-of-function screening to identify miRNAs involved in senescence: tumor suppressor activity of miRNA-335 and its new target CARF	Y. Yu, et al.	2016	27457128	Significance of microRNAs (miRs), small non-coding molecules, has been implicated in a variety of biological processes. Here, we recruited retroviral insertional mutagenesis to obtain induction of an arbitrary noncoding RNAs, and coupled it with a cell based loss-of-function (5-Aza-2'-deoxycytidine (5Aza-dC)-induced senescence bypass) screening system. Cells that escaped 5-Aza-dC-induced senescence were subjected to miR-microarray analysis with respect to the untreated control. We identified miR-335 as one of the upregulated miRs. In order to characterize the functional significance, we overexpressed miR-335 in human cancer cells and found that it caused growth suppression. We demonstrate that the latter accounted for inhibition of 5-Aza-dC incorporation into the cell genome, enabling them to escape from induction of senescence. We also report that CARF (Collaborator of ARF) is a new target of miR-335 that regulates its growth suppressor function by complex crosstalk with other proteins including p16(INK4A), pRB, HDM2 and p21(WAF1).	
Progressive Regulation of Sesquiterpene Biosynthesis in Arabidopsis and Patchouli (Pogostemon cablin) by the miR156-Targeted SPL Transcription Factors	Z. X. Yu, et al.	2014	25355059	Plant metabolites vary at different stages of life cycle. Although it is well documented that environmental factors stimulate biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, the regulation by endogenous developmental cues remains poorly understood. The microRNA156 (miR156)-tageted SQUAMOSA PROMOTER BINDING PROTEIN-LIKE (SPL) factors function as a major age cue in regulating developmental phase transition and flowering. We show here that the miR156-targeted SPL transcription factor plays an important role in the spatiotemporal regulation of sesquiterpene biosynthesis. In Arabidopsis thaliana, the miR156-SPL module regulates the formation of (E)-beta-caryophyllene in flowering stage through modulating expression of the sesquiterpene synthase gene TPS21. We demonstrated that SPL9 directly binds to TPS21 promoter and activates its expression. In the perennial fragrant herb Pogostemon cablin, the accumulation of "patchouli oil", largely composed of sesquiterpenes dominated by (-)-patchoulol, is also age-regulated, and the SPL promotes biosynthesis of sesquiterpenes in elder plants by up-regulating patchoulol synthase (PatPTS) gene expression. As miR156-SPLs are highly conserved in plants, our finding not only uncovers a molecular link between developmental timing and sesquiterpene production, but also suggests a new strategy to engineer plant for accelerated growth with enhanced production of terpenoids.	(E)-beta-caryophyllene;Arabidopsis;PatPTS;Pogostemon cablin;Tps21;miR156 targeted SPLs;patchoulol;sesquiterpene biosynthesis
Progressive regulation of sesquiterpene biosynthesis in Arabidopsis and Patchouli (Pogostemon cablin) by the miR156-targeted SPL transcription factors	Z. X. Yu, et al.	2015	25578275	Plant metabolites vary at different stages of their life cycle. Although it is well documented that environmental factors stimulate biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, the regulation by endogenous developmental cues remains poorly understood. The microRNA156 (miR156)-targeted squamosa promoter binding protein-like (SPL) factors function as a major age cue in regulating developmental phase transition and flowering. We show here that the miR156-targeted SPL transcription factor plays an important role in the spatiotemporal regulation of sesquiterpene biosynthesis. In Arabidopsis thaliana, the miR156-SPL module regulates the formation of (E)-beta-caryophyllene in the flowering stage through modulating expression of the sesquiterpene synthase gene TPS21. We demonstrated that SPL9 directly binds to TPS21 promoter and activates its expression. In the perennial fragrant herb Pogostemon cablin, the accumulation of patchouli oil, largely composed of sesquiterpenes dominated by (-)-patchoulol, is also age-regulated, and the SPL promotes biosynthesis of sesquiterpenes in elder plants by upregulating patchoulol synthase (PatPTS) gene expression. As miR156-SPLs are highly conserved in plants, our finding not only uncovers a molecular link between developmental timing and sesquiterpene production but also suggests a new strategy to engineer plants for accelerated growth with enhanced production of terpenoids.	Arabidopsis/ metabolism;Arabidopsis Proteins/metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Plant Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Plants, Genetically Modified/genetics/metabolism;Promoter Regions, Genetic;Sesquiterpenes/ metabolism;Transcription Factors/ metabolism;Arabidopsis;PatPTS;Pogostemon cablin;Tps21;miR156 targeted SPLs;sesquiterpene biosynthesis
Methylation by NSun2 represses the levels and function of microRNA 125b	S. Yuan, et al.	2014	25047833	Methylation is a prevalent posttranscriptional modification of RNAs. However, whether mammalian microRNAs are methylated is unknown. Here, we show that the tRNA methyltransferase NSun2 methylates primary (pri-miR-125b), precursor (pre-miR-125b), and mature microRNA 125b (miR-125b) in vitro and in vivo. Methylation by NSun2 inhibits the processing of pri-miR-125b2 into pre-miR-125b2, decreases the cleavage of pre-miR-125b2 into miR-125, and attenuates the recruitment of RISC by miR-125, thereby repressing the function of miR-125b in silencing gene expression. Our results highlight the impact of miR-125b function via methylation by NSun2.	Carboxypeptidases/metabolism;DNA Methylation;Epigenesis, Genetic;Gene Silencing;HeLa Cells;Humans;Hydrogen Peroxide/pharmacology;Methyltransferases/ genetics;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Oxidative Stress;RNA Processing, Post-Transcriptional;RNA, Messenger/genetics
Role of microRNA-15a in autoantibody production in interferon-augmented murine model of lupus	Y. Yuan, et al.	2012	22578383	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are involved in the regulation of immunity via targeting of mRNA encoding immune response elements. In this report, alterations in the expression of microRNAs as autoantibody levels increase was investigated. The (NZBxNZW)F1 or B/W mouse model of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) naturally has increased autoantibodies with aging. IFNalpha (type I IFN) accelerates B/W disease, however, the effects of a related IFN, IFNlambda, which is a type III IFN, is largely unknown. The purpose of the study was to investigate the relationship between IFN-accelerated disease, microRNAs, immunoregulatory B cell subsets and autoantibody production in the autoimmune-prone environment in vivo. B/W mice received osmotic pumps to chronically deliver IFNalpha and IFNlambda for up to 16 weeks. Urine protein level was monitored weekly by urine strips and proteinuria was used as the disease marker. Splenic cells were taken for flow analysis of B cell subsets and levels of microRNAs determined. Plasma were analyzed for autoantibodies and microRNA levels. As a result of treatment, IFNalpha accelerated proteinuria in a dose dependent manner, while IFNlambda single treatment did not show a significant effect, but greatly enhanced low dose IFNalpha effects in the combination treatment. Both the splenic cellular and plasma miR-15a were elevated in diseased compared to pre-diseased mice as well as autoantibody levels. Autoantibodies and miR-15a levels were significantly correlated. The immunosuppressive B subpopulation, B-10, was reduced following IFNalpha treatment. In addition in diseased mice, B-10 versus B-2 ratios were reduced in IFN-treated B/W compared to the control PBS treated group. In all B/W the miR-15a was highly expressed in the B-10 subset and this increased with disease development, suggesting that miR-15a has a specific negative effect on the B-10 subpopulation. In conclusion, our data support the involvement of elevated miR-15a in autoimmune disease development in B/W mice and suggest that decreasing this microRNA might be beneficial in B/W mice.	Animals;Autoantibodies/ biosynthesis;B-Lymphocyte Subsets/immunology/pathology;Base Sequence;DNA Primers/genetics;Disease Models, Animal;Female;Interferon-alpha/administration & dosage;Interferons/administration & dosage/classification;Lupus Erythematosus, Systemic/etiology/ genetics/ immunology/pathology;Mice;Mice, Inbred NZB;MicroRNAs/blood/ genetics/ immunology/metabolism;Recombinant Proteins/administration & dosage;Spleen/immunology/pathology;Up-Regulation/drug effects
Identification of microRNAs linked to regulators of muscle protein synthesis and regeneration in young and old skeletal muscle	E. Zacharewicz, et al.	2014	25460913	BACKGROUND: Over the course of ageing there is a natural and progressive loss of skeletal muscle mass. The onset and progression of age-related muscle wasting is associated with an attenuated activation of Akt-mTOR signalling and muscle protein synthesis in response to anabolic stimuli such as resistance exercise. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are novel and important post-transcriptional regulators of numerous cellular processes. The role of miRNAs in the regulation of muscle protein synthesis following resistance exercise is poorly understood. This study investigated the changes in skeletal muscle miRNA expression following an acute bout of resistance exercise in young and old subjects with a focus on the miRNA species predicted to target Akt-mTOR signalling. RESULTS: Ten young (24.2+/-0.9 years) and 10 old (66.6+/-1.1 years) males completed an acute resistance exercise bout known to maximise muscle protein synthesis, with muscle biopsies collected before and 2 hours after exercise. We screened the expression of 754 miRNAs in the muscle biopsies and found 26 miRNAs to be regulated with age, exercise or a combination of both factors. Nine of these miRNAs are highly predicted to regulate targets within the Akt-mTOR signalling pathway and 5 miRNAs have validated binding sites within the 3' UTRs of several members of the Akt-mTOR signalling pathway. The miR-99/100 family of miRNAs notably emerged as potentially important regulators of skeletal muscle mass in young and old subjects. CONCLUSION: This study has identified several miRNAs that were regulated with age or with a single bout of resistance exercise. Some of these miRNAs were predicted to influence Akt-mTOR signalling, and therefore potentially skeletal muscle mass. These miRNAs should be considered as candidate targets for in vivo modulation.	Adult;Age Factors;Aged;Computational Biology;Discriminant Analysis;Gene Expression Regulation;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/metabolism/ physiology;Muscle, Skeletal/ physiology;Principal Component Analysis;Regeneration/ genetics;Signal Transduction
A Combination of Resveratrol and Curcumin is Effective Against Aluminum Chloride-Induced Neuroinflammation in Rats	A. Zaky, et al.	2017	28222524	BACKGROUND: Experimental studies have demonstrated that aluminum is an environmental toxin that induces neuroinflammation and the development of Alzheimer's disease. OBJECTIVE: In this report, we investigated the beneficial effect of a combination of resveratrol and curcumin to reduce aluminum-induced neuroinflammation. METHOD: We employed both an in vivo model of aluminum-induced neuroinflammation and an in vitro aluminum stimulated cultured PC-12 cells. Neuroinflammation in rats was assessed by measuring the expression of beta-secretase, amyloid-beta protein precursor, and gamma-subunits (PS-1 and PS-2), along with the inflammatory COX-2, Il-1beta, Il-1alpha, and TNF-alpha. Furthermore, we measured the expression profiles of neuro-protective Apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease 1 (APE1) protein and let-7c microRNA. In parallel, PC-12 cells were treated with 0.5 mM aluminum to induce a neuroinflammation-like state. In addition, curcumin effect, as a selective COX-2 expression inhibitor, was detected in a time course manner. RESULTS: An overall significant attenuation of the inflammatory markers, as well as a decrease in the amyloidogenic mediators, was observed in resveratrol-curcumin treated rats. The therapeutic effect was also confirmed by transmission electron microscopic analysis of the brain cortexes. APE1 was significantly induced by resveratrol-curcumin combination. Both in vivo and in vitro studies indicated that Let-7c expression is significantly reduced after aluminum stimulation, an effect that was partially suppressed by co-addition of either resveratrol or curcumin and totally restored to the normal level by their combination. CONCLUSIONS: The present study clearly indicates the synergistic and therapeutic effect of a resveratrol-curcumin combination. We also show that both compounds exert beneficial effect either cooperatively or through differential molecular mechanisms in counteracting aluminum-induced neuroinflammation.	Aluminum;apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease 1;curcumin;cyclooxygenase-2;microRNA Let-7c;resveratrol
Systems Toxicology Assessment of the Biological Impact of a Candidate Modified Risk Tobacco Product on Human Organotypic Oral Epithelial Cultures	F. Zanetti, et al.	2016	27404394	Cigarette smoke (CS) has been reported to increase predisposition to oral cancer and is also recognized as a risk factor for many conditions including periodontal diseases, gingivitis, and other benign mucosal disorders. Smoking cessation remains the most effective approach for minimizing the risk of smoking-related diseases. However, reduction of harmful constituents by heating rather than combusting tobacco, without modifying the amount of nicotine, is a promising new paradigm in harm reduction. In this study, we compared effects of exposure to aerosol derived from a candidate modified risk tobacco product, the tobacco heating system (THS) 2.2, with those of CS generated from the 3R4F reference cigarette. Human organotypic oral epithelial tissue cultures (EpiOral, MatTek Corporation) were exposed for 28 min to 3R4F CS or THS2.2 aerosol, both diluted with air to comparable nicotine concentrations (0.32 or 0.51 mg nicotine/L aerosol/CS for 3R4F and 0.31 or 0.46 mg/L for THS2.2). We also tested one higher concentration (1.09 mg/L) of THS2.2. A systems toxicology approach was employed combining cellular assays (i.e., cytotoxicity and cytochrome P450 activity assays), comprehensive molecular investigations of the buccal epithelial transcriptome (mRNA and miRNA) by means of computational network biology, measurements of secreted proinflammatory markers, and histopathological analysis. We observed that the impact of 3R4F CS was greater than THS2.2 aerosol in terms of cytotoxicity, morphological tissue alterations, and secretion of inflammatory mediators. Analysis of the transcriptomic changes in the exposed oral cultures revealed significant perturbations in various network models such as apoptosis, necroptosis, senescence, xenobiotic metabolism, oxidative stress, and nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (NFE2L2) signaling. The stress responses following THS2.2 aerosol exposure were markedly decreased, and the exposed cultures recovered more completely compared with those exposed to 3R4F CS.	Environmental Exposure;Humans;MicroRNAs/metabolism;Mouth Mucosa/cytology/ drug effects/metabolism;Tobacco;Toxicology
Potential microRNA biomarkers for acute ischemic stroke	Y. Zeng, et al.	2015	26459744	Acute ischemic stroke is a significant cause of high morbidity and mortality in the aging population globally. However, current therapeutic strategies for acute ischemic stroke are limited. Atherosclerotic plaque is considered an independent risk factor for acute ischemic stroke. To identify biomarkers for carotid atheromatous plaque, bioinformatics analysis of the gene microarray data of plaque and intact tissue from individuals was performed. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified using the Multtest and Limma packages of R language, including 56 downregulated and 69 upregulated DEGs. Enriched microRNA (miRNA or miR) DEGs networks were generated using WebGestalt software and the STRING databases, and the miRNAs were validated using serum from acute ischemic stroke patients with reverse transcription quantitative PCR (RTqPCR). Four confirmed differentially expressed miRNAs (miR9, 22, 23 and 125) were associated with 28 upregulated DEGs, and 7 miRNAs (miR9, 30, 33, 124, 181, 218 and 330) were associated with 25 downregulated DEGs. Gene ontology (GO) function suggested that the confirmed miRNAtargeted DEGs predominantly associated with signal transduction, the circulatory system, biological adhesion, striated muscle contraction, wound healing and the immune system. The confirmed miRNAtargeted genes identified serve as potential therapeutic targets for acute ischemic stroke.	Biomarkers/ metabolism;Brain Ischemia/complications;Cluster Analysis;Computational Biology/ methods;Databases, Genetic;Gene Expression Profiling/ methods;Gene Regulatory Networks/genetics;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Risk Factors;Stroke/etiology/ genetics
Protective role of miR-23b-3p in kainic acid-induced seizure	L. Zhan, et al.	2016	27232518	Dysregulation of microRNAs has been proposed to contribute toward epilepsy. The miRNA miR-23b-3p has been found to protect against neuronal apoptosis and the production of reactive oxygen species. In this study, we assessed the potential role of miR-23b-3p in the kainic acid (KA)-induced seizure model. We found that miR-23b-3p levels were significantly decreased in the brain cortex of mice and in cultured mouse primary neurons treated with KA. Importantly, supplement of miR-23b-3p agomir by an intacerebroventricular injection alleviated seizure behaviors and abnormal cortical electroencephalogram recordings in KA-treated mice. Together, these results indicate that miR-23b-3p plays a crucial role in suppressing seizure formation in experimental models of epilepsy and that miR-23b-3p supplement may be a potential anabolic strategy for ameliorating seizure.	
A dosage-dependent pleiotropic role of Dicer in prostate cancer growth and metastasis	B. Zhang, et al.	2014	23851498	Dicer is an RNase III enzyme essential for the maturation of the majority of microRNAs. Recent studies have revealed downregulation or hemizygous loss of Dicer in many tumor models and demonstrated that suppressing Dicer activity enhances tumorigenic activities of lung and breast cancer cells, which support Dicer as a haploinsufficient tumor suppressor in these cancer models. Surprisingly, we found that knocking down Dicer expression suppresses the growth and tumorigenic capacity of human prostate cancer cell lines, but enhances migratory capacities of some prostate cancer cell lines. Dicer is upregulated in human prostate cancer specimens, but lower Dicer expression portends a shorter time to recurrence. Complete ablation of Dicer activity in a Pten null mouse model for prostate cancer significantly halts tumor growth and progression, demonstrating that microRNAs have a critical role in maintaining cancer cell fitness. In comparison, hemizygous loss of Dicer in the same model also reduces primary tumor burden, but induces a more locally invasive phenotype and causes seminal vesicle obstruction at high penetrance. Disrupting Dicer activity leads to an increase in apoptosis and senescence in these models, presumably through upregulation of P16/INK4a and P27/Kip1. Collectively, these results highlight a pleotropic role of Dicer in tumorigenesis that is not only dosage-dependent but also tissue context-dependent.	Animals;Apoptosis;Biomarkers, Tumor/genetics/metabolism;Blotting, Western;Cell Aging;Cell Movement;Cell Proliferation;DEAD-box RNA Helicases/ physiology;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Humans;Immunoenzyme Techniques;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Inbred NOD;Mice, Knockout;Mice, SCID;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;PTEN Phosphohydrolase/ physiology;Prostatic Neoplasms/genetics/metabolism/ pathology;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Ribonuclease III/ physiology;Tumor Cells, Cultured
A single nucleotide polymorphism in primary-microRNA-146a reduces the expression of mature microRNA-146a in patients with Alzheimer's disease and is associated with the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease	B. Zhang, et al.	2015	26095531	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder and is the most common form of dementia among the aging population. Although the incidence of the disease continues to increase, no cure has been developed. Effective treatment is restricted not only due to the lack of curative medicine, but also due to limited understanding of the underlying mechanisms and the difficulties in accurately diagnosing AD in its earliest stages prior to clinical symptoms. Micro (mi) RNAs (miR) have gained increasing attention in the investigation of neurodegenerative diseases. Previous reports have demonstrated that deregulation of miR146a5p is associated with the pathogenesis of human AD. In the present study, the coding region of primary (pri)miR146a in patients with AD was scanned and the rare C allele of rs2910164 was found to be associated with AD. Using reverse transcription quantitative polymerase chain reaction, it was demonstrated that site variation reduced the expression of mature miR146a5p. Notably, a reduction in the expression of miR146a5p led to less efficient inhibition of target genes, including Tolllike receptor (TLR)2, which is important in the pathogenesis of AD. Biological function investigations in RAW264.7 cells indicated that, compared with the G allele, the rare C allele upregulated the expression of tumor necrosis factoralpha following stimulation with betaamyloid. These findings suggested that one common polymorphism in primiR146a may contribute to the genetic predisposition to AD by disrupting the production of miR146a5p and affecting the expression and function of TLR2.	3' Untranslated Regions;Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alleles;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/metabolism/ pathology;Animals;Base Sequence;Case-Control Studies;Cell Line;Female;Genes, Reporter;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Genotype;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Male;Mice;MicroRNAs/chemistry/ genetics/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide/ genetics;Sequence Alignment;Toll-Like Receptor 2/chemistry/genetics/metabolism;Tumor Necrosis Factor-alpha/analysis
MicroRNA-146a represses LRP2 translation and leads to cell apoptosis in Alzheimer's disease	B. Zhang, et al.	2016	27241555	MicroRNA regulation of transcript expression has been reported in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we investigate the role of microRNA-146a (miRNA-146a), a brain-enriched miRNA, which is upregulated in AD patients. Through analysis of predicted targets of miRNA-146a, low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein-2 (Lrp2), a member of the LDLR family that is known to play a protective role in AD, was identified. Overexpression of miRNA-146a in SH-SY5Y cells significantly decreased Lrp2 expression, resulting in a reduction of Akt activation and induction of proapoptotic caspase-3, thereby increasing cell apoptosis. Thus, specific miRNA-146a regulation may contribute to AD by downregulating the Lrp2/Akt pathway.	Alzheimer Disease/genetics/ metabolism;Apoptosis;Caspase 3/genetics/metabolism;Cell Line;Humans;Low Density Lipoprotein Receptor-Related Protein-2/ biosynthesis/genetics;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Protein Biosynthesis;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction/genetics;Up-Regulation;Alzheimer's disease;Lrp2;miRNA-146a
RNA interference-mediated knockdown of long-form phosphodiesterase-4D (PDE4D) enzyme reverses amyloid-beta42-induced memory deficits in mice	C. Zhang, et al.	2014	23948935	Phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) inhibitors enhance memory, increase hippocampal neurogenesis, and reverse amyloid-beta (Abeta)-induced memory deficits. Here, we examined whether long-form PDE4D knockdown by lentiviral RNA construct containing a specific microRNA/miRNA-mir hairpin structure (4DmiRNA) reversed memory impairment caused by amyloid-beta1-42 (Abeta42) in mice using the Morris water maze (MWM) and novelty object recognition tests. Western blotting analysis was used to assess protein levels of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB, unphosphorylated and phosphorylated [pCREB]), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), and nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) to explore the neurochemical mechanisms. Aggregated Abeta42 (0.5 mug/side) bilaterally infused in dentate gyrus decreased cAMP levels (p < 0.01) and produced memory deficits in the MWM (p < 0.01) and object recognition tests (p < 0.01). Microinfusions of lentiviruses resulted in downregulated expression of PDE4D4 and 4D5 proteins and reversed Abeta42-induced cAMP decline (p < 0.05) and memory deficits. Treatment also concomitantly increased pCREB (p < 0.05) and BDNF (p < 0.01) and reduced IL-1beta (p < 0.05), TNF-alpha (p < 0.01), and NF-kappaB (p65) (p < 0.05) in the hippocampus of Abeta42-challenged mice. These results suggest that long-form PDE4D knockdown may offer a promising treatment for memory loss associated with Alzheimer's disease.	Amyloid beta-Peptides/ pharmacology;Animals;Cyclic AMP/metabolism;Cyclic Nucleotide Phosphodiesterases, Type 4/ deficiency/genetics;Disease Models, Animal;Exploratory Behavior/drug effects/physiology;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects/genetics/ physiology;Hippocampus/drug effects/metabolism;Male;Maze Learning/drug effects/physiology;Memory Disorders/chemically induced/enzymology/therapy;Mice;Mice, Inbred ICR;Peptide Fragments/ pharmacology;RNA Interference/ physiology;Reaction Time/drug effects/genetics;Recognition (Psychology)/drug effects/physiology;Alzheimer's disease;Pde4;anti-inflammation;long-form PDE4D;memory
microRNA-1827 represses MDM2 to positively regulate tumor suppressor p53 and suppress tumorigenesis	C. Zhang, et al.	2016	26840028	The tumor suppressor p53 plays a central role in tumor prevention. The E3 ubiquitin ligase MDM2 is the most critical negative regulator of p53, which binds to p53 and degrades p53 through ubiquitation. MDM2 itself is a transcriptional target of p53, and therefore, MDM2 forms a negative feedback loop with p53 to tightly regulate p53 levels and function. microRNAs (miRNAs) play a key role in regulation of gene expression. miRNA dysregulation plays an important role in tumorigenesis. In this study, we found that miRNA miR-1827 is a novel miRNA that targets MDM2 through binding to the 3'-UTR of MDM2 mRNA. miR-1827 negatively regulates MDM2, which in turn increases p53 protein levels to increase transcriptional activity of p53 and enhance p53-mediated stress responses, including apoptosis and senescence. Overexpression of miR-1827 suppresses the growth of xenograft colorectal tumors, whereas the miR-1827 inhibitor promotes tumor growth in mice in a largely p53-dependent manner. miR-1827 is frequently down-regulated in human colorectal cancer. Decreased miR-1827 expression is associated with high MDM2 expression and poor prognosis in colorectal cancer. In summary, our results reveal that miR-1827 is a novel miRNA that regulates p53 through targeting MDM2, and highlight an important role and the underlying mechanism of miR-1827 in tumor suppression.	3' Untranslated Regions;Animals;Apoptosis;Blotting, Western;Cell Proliferation;Cell Transformation, Neoplastic/genetics/metabolism/ pathology;Colorectal Neoplasms/genetics/metabolism/ pathology;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Humans;Immunoenzyme Techniques;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neoplasm Staging;Prognosis;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-mdm2/genetics/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Signal Transduction;Tissue Array Analysis;Tumor Cells, Cultured;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/genetics/ metabolism;Xenograft Model Antitumor Assays;Mdm2;microRNA;negative feedback loop;p53;tumor suppressor
MicroRNA-339-5p inhibits colorectal tumorigenesis through regulation of the MDM2/p53 signaling	C. Zhang, et al.	2014	25193859	Tumor suppressor p53 plays a central role in tumor suppression. To ensure its proper function, the levels and activity of p53 are under a tight regulation in cells. MicroRNAs are short non-coding RNAs that play an important role in regulation of gene expression. Recently, microRNA-339-5p has been reported to be frequently down-regulated in colorectal cancer, and furthermore, its down-regulation is associated with poor prognosis in cancer patients, which strongly suggests a tumor suppressive function of microRNA-339-5p in colorectal cancer. In this study, we found that microRNA-339-5p directly represses the expression of MDM2, a key negative regulator of p53, through binding to MDM2 3'-UTR in colorectal cancer cells. Through the down-regulation of MDM2, microRNA-339-5p increases p53 protein levels and functions, including p53 transcriptional activity and p53-mediated apoptosis and senescence in response to stress. Furthermore, microRNA-339-5p inhibits the migration and invasion of colorectal cancer cells and the growth of colorectal xenograft tumors in a largely p53-dependent manner. Our results highlighted an important role of microRNA-339-5p in suppression of colorectal tumorigenesis, and also revealed that regulating the p53 function is an important mechanism for microRNA-339-5p in tumor suppression.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Animals;Apoptosis/genetics;Binding Sites/genetics;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Movement/genetics;Cell Proliferation;Cell Transformation, Neoplastic/ genetics;Colorectal Neoplasms/genetics/mortality/ pathology;DNA-Binding Proteins/genetics;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Regulation, Neoplastic;Gene Knockdown Techniques;HCT116 Cells;Humans;MCF-7 Cells;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;Mice, Nude;MicroRNAs/ genetics/pharmacology;Neoplasm Invasiveness/genetics;Neoplasm Transplantation;Prognosis;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-mdm2/ biosynthesis/genetics;Transplantation, Heterologous;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/biosynthesis/genetics/ metabolism
Primate-specific miR-603 is implicated in the risk and pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease	C. Zhang, et al.	2016	26856603	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a serious neurodegenerative disease, and microRNAs (miRNAs) have been linked to its pathogenesis. miR-603, a novel primate-specific miRNA and an intronic miRNA of a human brain highly expressed gene KIAA1217, is implicated in the risk and pathogenesis of AD. The rs11014002 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) (C/U), which locates in miR-603 precursor (pre-miR-603), exhibits a protective effect towards AD risk. Additionally, the rs11014002 SNP promotes the biogenesis of mature miR-603. miR-603 downregulates LRPAP1 mRNA and protein levels through directly binding the 3' untranslated region (3'UTR) of LRPAP1. Moreover, miR-603 increases LRP1 protein expression. LRPAP1 and LRP1, playing opposite roles, are involved in Abeta clearance and pathogenesis of AD. Strikingly, miR-603 exhibits a relatively higher expression and there is a loss of a negative correlation between miR-603 and LRPAP1/RND1 mRNA levels in the hippocampi of patients with AD. In addition, miR-603 directly downregulates a key neuronal apoptotic component-E2F1, and prevents HeLa cells from undergoing H2O2-induced apoptosis. This work suggests that miR-603 may be a novel AD-relevant miRNA and that its rs11014002 SNP may serve as a protective factor against AD.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics;Blotting, Western;Female;Genetic Predisposition to Disease/ genetics;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Risk Factors;Transfection;Alzheimer's disease risk;biogenesis;miR-603;pathogenesis;single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP)
Tumor suppressor microRNA-34a inhibits cell proliferation by targeting Notch1 in renal cell carcinoma	C. Zhang, et al.	2014	24765202	MicroRNA-34a (miR-34a) is a tumor suppressive microRNA, which induces G1 arrest, apoptosis and senescence by repressing the expression of multiple oncogenes. This study aimed to investigate the biological function and molecular mechanisms of miR-34a in human renal cell carcinoma (RCC) cells. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) revealed that miR-34a expression was significantly downregulated in eight of the 10 (80%) RCC tissues compared with adjacent normal tissues. In RCC cell lines, several other target genes of miR-34a were dysregulated at the mRNA level when the expression of miR-34a was elevated. In addition, western blot analysis and qPCR revealed that forced expression of miR-34a downregulated the expression of Notch1 at the protein and mRNA level. The Cell Counting Kit-8 identified that transient forced expression of miR-34a inhibited cell growth and resulted in cell cycle arrest, which was evaluated by flow cytometry. Our data demonstrated that miR-34a inhibits cell proliferation by downregulating Notch1 in RCC cell lines.	cell cycle;cell proliferation;microRNA-34a;notch1;renal cell carcinoma;target oncogenes
A comparative study of the characterization of miR-155 in knockout mice	D. Zhang, et al.	2017	28278287	miR-155 is one of the most important miRNAs and plays a very important role in numerous biological processes. However, few studies have characterized this miRNA in mice under normal physiological conditions. We aimed to characterize miR-155 in vivo by using a comparative analysis. In our study, we compared miR-155 knockout (KO) mice with C57BL/6 wild type (WT) mice in order to characterize miR-155 in mice under normal physiological conditions using many evaluation methods, including a reproductive performance analysis, growth curve, ultrasonic estimation, haematological examination, and histopathological analysis. These analyses showed no significant differences between groups in the main evaluation indices. The growth and development were nearly normal for all mice and did not differ between the control and model groups. Using a comparative analysis and a summary of related studies published in recent years, we found that miR-155 was not essential for normal physiological processes in 8-week-old mice. miR-155 deficiency did not affect the development and growth of naturally ageing mice during the 42 days after birth. Thus, studying the complex biological functions of miR-155 requires the further use of KO mouse models.	
Roles of microRNA-34a targeting SIRT1 in mesenchymal stem cells	F. Zhang, et al.	2015	26446137	INTRODUCTION: Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-based therapies have had positive outcomes both in animal models of cardiovascular diseases and in clinical patients. However, the number and function of MSCs decline during hypoxia and serum deprivation (H/SD), reducing their ability to contribute to endogenous injury repair. MicroRNA-34a (miR-34a) is originally identified as a TP53-targeted miRNA that modulates cell functions, including apoptosis, proliferation, and senescence via several signaling pathways, and hence is an appealing target for MSC-based therapy for myocardial infarction. METHODS: Bone marrow-derived MSCs were isolated from 60-80 g male donor rats. Expression levels of miR-34a were determined by qRT-PCR. The roles of miR-34a in regulating cell vitality, apoptosis and senescence were investigated using the cell counting kit (CCK-8) assay, flow cytometric analysis of Annexin V-FITC/PI staining and senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-gal) staining, respectively. The expression of silent information regulator 1 (SIRT1) and forkhead box class O 3a (FOXO3a) and of apoptosis- and senescence-associated proteins in MSCs were analyzed by western blotting. RESULTS: The results of the current study showed that miR-34a was significantly up-regulated under H/SD conditions in MSCs, while overexpression of miR-34a was significantly associated with increased apoptosis, impaired cell vitality and aggravated senescence. Moreover, we found that the mechanism underlying the proapoptotic function of miR-34a involves activation of the SIRT1/FOXO3a pathway, mitochondrial dysfunction and finally, activation of the intrinsic apoptosis pathway. Further study showed that miR-34a can also aggravate MSC senescence, an effect which was partly abolished by the reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavenger, N-acetylcysteine (NAC). CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates for the first time that miR-34a plays pro-apoptotic and pro-senescence roles in MSCs by targeting SIRT1. Thus, inhibition of miR-34a might have important therapeutic implications in MSC-based therapy for myocardial infarction.	Animals;Apoptosis;Cell Aging;Cells, Cultured;Male;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/ metabolism/physiology;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Sirtuin 1/ genetics/metabolism
Down-Regulation of MicroRNA-133b Suppresses Apoptosis of Lens Epithelial Cell by Up-Regulating BCL2L2 in Age-Related Cataracts	F. Zhang, et al.	2016	27802259	BACKGROUND MicroRNA-133b (miR-133b) has been reported to be involved in many diseases, including ovarian cancer and osteosarcoma. Accumulating evidence suggests that miR-133b plays important roles in human disease. In this study, we aimed to investigate the molecular mechanism, including the potential regulator and signaling pathways, of BCL2L2. MATERIAL AND METHODS We first searched the online miRNA database (www.mirdb.org) using the "seed sequence" located within the 3'-UTR of the target gene, and then performed luciferase assay to test the regulatory relationship between miR-133b and BCL2L2. Western blot and real-time PCR were used to determine the expression of BCL2L2 in human samples or cells treated with miRNA mimics or inhibitors. Flow cytometry was conducted to evaluate the apoptosis status of the cells. RESULTS We validated BCL2L2 to be the direct gene using a luciferase reporter assay. We also conducted real-time PCR and Western blot analyses to study the mRNA and protein expression level of BCL2L2 among different groups (control: n=29, cataract: n=33) or cells treated with scramble control, miR-133b mimics, BCL2L2 siRNA, and miR-133b inhibitors, and identified the negative regulatory relationship between miR-133b and BCL2L2. We also conducted experiments to investigate the influence of miR-133b and BCL2L2 on the viability and apoptosis of cells. The results showed that miR-133b positively interfered with the viability of cells, while BCL2L2 negatively interfered with the viability of cells, and that miR-133b inhibited apoptosis while BCL2L2 accelerated apoptosis. CONCLUSIONS BCL2L2 was the virtual target of miR-133b, and we found a negative regulatory relationship between miR-133b and BCL2L2. MiR-133b and BCL2L2 interfered with the viability and apoptosis of cells.	3' Untranslated Regions;Apoptosis/genetics;Apoptosis Regulatory Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Cataract/ genetics/metabolism;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation/genetics;Down-Regulation;Epithelial Cells/metabolism;Female;Humans;Lens, Crystalline/metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;RNA, Small Interfering/genetics;Signal Transduction;Up-Regulation
Investigation of microRNA expression in human serum during the aging process	H. Zhang, et al.	2015	25165030	BACKGROUND: Although serum microRNAs (miRNAs) play essential roles in the diagnosis of various diseases, little is known about circulating miRNAs in the aging process. METHODS: Solexa sequencing technology was used for an initial miRNA screening of serum samples pooled from 21 healthy Chinese subjects with an average age of 22 years, 10 subjects with an average age of 40 years, 10 subjects with an average age of 59 years, and 9 subjects with an average age of 70 years. Other serum samples were obtained from 123 normal people with approximately 31 samples in each age period. A stem-loop quantitative reverse transcription-PCR assay was conducted to confirm the concentrations of the miRNAs altered in the aging process. RESULTS: Solexa sequencing demonstrated 10 markedly altered miRNAs in the aging process. Quantitative reverse transcription-PCR analysis identified five downregulated miRNAs (miR-29b, miR-106b, miR-130b, miR-142-5p, and miR-340) and three upregulated miRNAs (miR-92a, miR-222, and miR-375) with age. Their target genes, related diseases, molecular and cellular functions, and participated pathways were further analyzed. CONCLUSIONS: The measurement of miRNAs in serum provides a novel, noninvasive approach for the identification of the aging process. Our bioinformatic analyses could form a useful knowledge base for the potential future development of novel therapeutic treatments.	Adult;Aged;Aging/ blood/ genetics;Asian Continental Ancestry Group/genetics;China;Computational Biology;Down-Regulation;Female;High-Throughput Nucleotide Sequencing;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ blood/ genetics;Middle Aged;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Up-Regulation;Young Adult;Aging;Biomarker.;MicroRNA;Serum
Synaptic and cognitive improvements by inhibition of 2-AG metabolism are through upregulation of microRNA-188-3p in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease	J. Zhang, et al.	2014	25378159	Abnormal accumulation of beta-amyloid (Abeta) is the major neuropathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the mechanisms underlying aberrant Abeta formation in AD remain unclear. We showed previously that inhibition of monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL), the primary enzyme that metabolizes the endocannabinoid 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG) in the brain, robustly reduces Abeta by inhibiting beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1), a key enzyme responsible for Abeta formation. However, the molecular mechanisms responsible for suppression of BACE1 by inhibition of 2-AG metabolism are largely unknown. We demonstrate here that expression of the noncoding small RNA miR-188-3p that targets BACE1 was significantly downregulated both in the brains of AD humans and APP transgenic (TG) mice, a mouse model of AD. The downregulated miR-188-3p expression was restored by MAGL inhibition. Overexpression of miR-188-3p in the hippocampus reduced BACE1, Abeta, and neuroinflammation and prevented deteriorations in hippocampal basal synaptic transmission, long-term potentiation, spatial learning, and memory in TG mice. 2-AG-induced suppression of BACE1 was prevented by miR-188-3p loss of function. Moreover, miR-188-3p expression was upregulated by 2-AG or peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) agonists and suppressed by PPARgamma antagonism or NF-kappaB activation. Reducing Abeta and neuroinflammation by MAGL inhibition was occluded by PPARgamma antagonism. In addition, BACE1 suppression by 2-AG and PPARgamma activation was eliminated by knockdown of NF-kappaB. Our study provides a novel molecular mechanism underlying improved synaptic and cognitive function in TG mice by 2-AG signaling, which upregulates miR-188-3p expression through PPARgamma and NF-kappaB signaling pathway, resulting in suppressions of BACE1 expression and Abeta formation.	Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ metabolism/therapy;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/genetics/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/genetics/metabolism;Animals;Arachidonic Acids/ metabolism;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/genetics/metabolism;Case-Control Studies;Cells, Cultured;Endocannabinoids/ metabolism;Genetic Therapy;Glycerides/ metabolism;HEK293 Cells;Hippocampus/metabolism/physiopathology;Humans;Long-Term Potentiation;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Monoacylglycerol Lipases/genetics/ metabolism;NF-kappa B/genetics/metabolism;PPAR gamma/metabolism;Spatial Learning;Up-Regulation;NF-kappaB;PPARgamma;endocannabinoids;miRNA sponge;monoacylglycerol lipase;noncoding small RNA
Comparative profiling of genes and miRNAs expressed in the newborn, young adult, and aged human epididymides	J. Zhang, et al.	2010	20119626	To understand roles of transcriptional factors and miRNAs in regulating gene expression in the epididymis from postnatal development through aging, systematic profiling of genes and miRNAs expressed in the newborn, young adult, and aged human epididymides was performed by cDNA array and miRNA array analysis, respectively. The newborn human epididymis expressed the fewest mRNAs but the largest number of miRNAs, whereas the adult and aged epididymides expressed the most mRNAs but the fewest miRNAs, a negative correlation between mRNAs and miRNA during aging. By integrative analysis, a set of miRNA targets were predicted based on the miRNA and cDNA arrays. In the newborn epididymis, 127 miRNAs were exclusively or preferentially expressed but only 3 and 2 miRNAs showed an age-enriched expression pattern in the adult and aged epididymides, respectively. This study provides a basic database as well as new insights and foundations for further studies on the complex regulation of gene expression in the epididymis.	Adult;Aged;Aging/ physiology;Epididymis/ metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/physiology;Humans;Infant, Newborn;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Proteome/ metabolism
The emergence of noncoding RNAs as Heracles in autophagy	J. Zhang, et al.	2017	28441084	Macroautophagy/autophagy is a catabolic process that is widely found in nature. Over the past few decades, mounting evidence has indicated that noncoding RNAs, ranging from small noncoding RNAs to long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) and even circular RNAs (circRNAs), mediate the transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation of autophagy-related genes by participating in autophagy regulatory networks. The differential expression of noncoding RNAs affects autophagy levels at different physiological and pathological stages, including embryonic proliferation and differentiation, cellular senescence, and even diseases such as cancer. We summarize the current knowledge regarding noncoding RNA dysregulation in autophagy and investigate the molecular regulatory mechanisms underlying noncoding RNA involvement in autophagy regulatory networks. Then, we integrate public resources to predict autophagy-related noncoding RNAs across species and discuss strategies for and the challenges of identifying autophagy-related noncoding RNAs. This article will deepen our understanding of the relationship between noncoding RNAs and autophagy, and provide new insights to specifically target noncoding RNAs in autophagy-associated therapeutic strategies.	autophagy;bioinformatics;circRNAs;long noncoding RNAs;microRNAs
MiR-23a-depressed autophagy is a participant in PUVA- and UVB-induced premature senescence	J. A. Zhang, et al.	2016	27191270	Autophagy is a cellular catabolic mechanism that is activated in response to stress conditions, including ultraviolet (UV) irradiation, starvation, and misfolded protein accumulation. Abnormalities in autophagy are associated with several pathologies, including aging and cancer. Furthermore, recent studies have demonstrated that microRNAs (miRNAs) are potent modulators of the autophagy pathway. As a result, the current study aims to elucidate the role of the autophagy-related miRNA miR-23ain the process of photoaging. Experiments demonstrated that the antagomir-mediated inactivation of miR-23a resulted in the stimulation of PUVA- and UVB-depressed autophagy flux and protected human fibroblasts from premature senescence. Furthermore, AMBRA1 was identified as a miR-23a target. AMBRA1 cellular levels increased following the introduction of miR-23a antagomirs. And a bioinformatics analysis revealed that the AMBRA1 3' UTR contains functional miR-23a responsive sequences. Finally, it was also demonstrated that both AMBRA1 overexpression and Rapamycin treatment were both able to rescue fibroblasts from PUVA and UVB irradiation-induced autophagy inhibition, but that these effects could also be mitigated by miR-23a overexpression. Therefore, this study concludes that miR-23a-regulated autophagy is a novel and important regulator of ultraviolet-induced premature senescence and AMBRA1 is a rate-limiting miRNA target in this pathway.	Ambra1;Gerotarget;autophagy;miR-23a;stress-induced premature senescence;ultraviolet
Combination therapy with VELCADE and tissue plasminogen activator is neuroprotective in aged rats after stroke and targets microRNA-146a and the toll-like receptor signaling pathway	L. Zhang, et al.	2012	22723435	OBJECTIVE: Activation of the toll-like receptor (TLR) signaling pathway exacerbates ischemic brain damage. The present study tested the hypothesis that combination treatment with VELCADE and tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) modulates the TLR signaling pathway on cerebral vasculature, which leads to neuroprotection in aged rats after stroke. METHODS AND RESULTS: Focal cerebral ischemia acutely increased TLR2, TLR4, and interleukin-1 receptor-activated kinases 1 immunoreactivity on fibrin/fibrinogen-positive vessels in aged rats. Monotherapy of tPA further amplified these signals. However, VELCADE in combination with tPA-blocked stroke- and tPA-potentiated vascular TLR signals, leading to robust reduction of infarct volume compared with respective monotherapies. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction analysis of cerebral endothelial cells isolated by laser capture microdissection revealed that the combination treatment increased miR-l46a levels, which was inversely associated with the reduction of vascular interleukin-1 receptor-activated kinases 1 immunoreactivity. In vitro, fibrin upregulated interleukin-1 receptor-activated kinases 1 and TLR4 expression and downregulated miR-146a on primary human cerebral endothelial cells. VELCADE elevated miR-146 levels and abolished fibrin-increased interleukin-1 receptor activated kinases 1 proteins. CONCLUSIONS: Stroke acutely activates the TLR signaling pathway on cerebral vasculature. Upregulation of miR-146a and inactivation of ischemia and tPA-potentiated TLR signaling pathway by VELCADE may play an important role in the neuroprotective effect of the combination therapy of VELCADE and tPA for acute stroke.	Aging;Animals;Boronic Acids/ administration & dosage;Bortezomib;Cells, Cultured;Down-Regulation;Drug Therapy, Combination;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ physiology;NF-kappa B/metabolism;Neuroprotective Agents/ administration & dosage;Pyrazines/ administration & dosage;Rats;Rats, Wistar;Signal Transduction/ drug effects;Stroke/ drug therapy;Tissue Plasminogen Activator/ administration & dosage;Toll-Like Receptors/ physiology
MicroRNA expression changes during zebrafish development induced by perfluorooctane sulfonate	L. Zhang, et al.	2011	20878907	Perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS), a kind of widely distributed environmentally organic compound, has been found to cause developmental toxicity. Although microRNAs (miRNAs) play an important role in many metabolic tasks, whether and how they are involved in the process of PFOS-induced toxicity is largely unknown. To address this problem, PFOS-induced changes in miRNAs and target gene expression in zebrafish embryos, and the potential mechanism of PFOS-induced toxic action were studied in this research. Zebrafish embryos were exposed to 1 microg ml(-1) PFOS or DMSO control from 6 h post-fertilization (hpf) to 24 or 120 hpf. Subsequently, RNA was isolated from the embryo pool and the expression profiles of 219 known zebrafish miRNAs were analyzed using microarray. Finally, quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction was used to validate several miRNAs expression of microarray data. The analysis revealed that PFOS exposure induced significant changes in miRNA expression profiles. A total of 39 and 81 miRNAs showed significantly altered expression patterns after PFOS exposure 24 and 120 hpf. Of the changed miRNAs, 20 were significantly up-regulated and 19 were significantly down-regulated (p < 0.01) at 24 hpf, whereas 41 were significantly up-regulated and 40 were significantly down-regulated (p < 0.01) at 120 hpf. These miRNAs were involved in development, apoptosis and cell signal pathway, cell cycle progression and proliferation, oncogenesis, adipose metabolism and hormone secretion, whereas there is still little functional information available for 32 miRNAs. Our results demonstrate that PFOS exposure alters the expression of a suite of miRNAs and may induce developmental toxicity.	Abnormalities, Drug-Induced/etiology/genetics/metabolism;Alkanesulfonic Acids/ toxicity;Animals;Embryo, Nonmammalian/abnormalities/ drug effects;Embryonic Development/ drug effects/genetics;Environmental Pollutants/ toxicity;Fluorocarbons/ toxicity;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/ drug effects;Longevity/drug effects;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;RNA, Messenger;Time Factors;Zebrafish/ embryology/genetics/physiology
MicroRNA-30a Regulation of Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition in Diabetic Cataracts Through Targeting SNAI1	L. Zhang, et al.	2017	28442786	Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a highly conserved and fundamental process in development, fibrosis, and metastasis. During the process, epithelial cells lose their morphology and transcriptional program, and transdifferentiate to mesenchymal cells. It has been reported that lens epithelial cells undergo EMT during cataract formation, and regulation of microRNAs on genes is associated with lens development. However, the molecular mechanisms of this regulation in diabetic cataract still need to be investigated. In the present study, the expression of E-cadherin was downregulated, while the expression of alpha-SMA and vimentin was upregulated in diabetic cataract tissues and the in vitro model, suggesting the involvement of EMT in diabetic cataract formation. Results of miRNA profiling demonstrated that miR-30a was markedly downregulated in diabetic cataract tissues. Overexpression of miR-30a-5p decreased SNAI1, a known modulator of EMT, and the expression of vimentin and alpha-SMA in our diabetic cataract model in vitro. It is concluded that EMT is involved in human diabetic cataract, and upregulation of miR-30a can repress EMT through its targeting of SNAI1 in lens epithelial cells, which make miR-30a a novel target of therapeutic intervention for human diabetic cataract.	
GAMDB: a web resource to connect microRNAs with autophagy in gerontology	L. Zhang, et al.	2016	27037912	OBJECTIVES: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous ~23 nucleotides (nt) RNAs, regulating gene expression by pairing to the mRNAs of protein-coding genes to direct their post-transcriptional repression. Both in normal and aberrant activities, miRNAs contribute to a recurring paradigm of cellular behaviors in pathological settings, especially in gerontology. Autophagy, a multi-step lysosomal degradation process with function to degrade long-lived proteins and damaged organelles, has significant impact on gerontology. Thus, elucidating how miRNAs participate in autophagy may enlarge the scope of miRNA in autophagy and facilitate researches in gerontology. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Herein, based upon the published studies, predicted targets and gerontology-related diseases, we constructed a web resource named Gerontology-Autophagic-MicroRNA Database (GAMDB) (http://gamdb.liu-lab.com/index.php), which contained 836 autophagy-related miRNAs, 197 targeted genes/proteins and 56 aging-related diseases such as Parkinson' disease, Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's disease. RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: We made use of large amounts of data to elucidate the intricate relationships between microRNA-regulated autophagic mechanisms and gerontology. This database will facilitate better understanding of autophagy regulation network in gerontology and thus promoting gerontology-related therapy in the future.	Alzheimer Disease/genetics;Autophagy/genetics;Databases, Nucleic Acid;Geriatrics/ methods;Humans;Huntington Disease/genetics;Internet;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Parkinson Disease/genetics
MiR-92a regulates viability and angiogenesis of endothelial cells under oxidative stress	L. Zhang, et al.	2014	24650666	Oxidative stress contributes to endothelial cell (EC) dysfunction, which is prevalent in ageing and atherosclerosis. MicroRNAs (miRs) are small, non-coding RNAs that post-transcriptionally regulate gene expression and play a key role in fine-tuning EC functional responses, including apoptosis and angiogenesis. MiR-92a is highly expressed in young endothelial cells in comparison with senescent endothelial cells, which exhibit increased oxidative stress and apoptosis. However, the impact of miR-92a treatment on EC viability and angiogenesis under oxidative stress is unknown. Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) was used to induce oxidative stress in human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC). Pre-miR-92a treatment decreased H2O2-induced apoptosis of HUVEC as determined by TUNEL assay. Pre-miR-92a treatment enhanced capillary tube formation by HUVEC under oxidative stress, which was blocked by LY294002, an inhibitor of Akt phosphorylation. Interestingly, we also observed that inhibition of miR-92a by anti-miR-92a antisense can also enhance angiogenesis in HUVEC with and without oxidative stress exposure. Our results show that perturbation of miR-92a levels outside of its narrow "homeostatic" range may trigger endothelial cell angiogenesis, suggesting that the role of miR-92a in regulating angiogenesis is controversial and may vary depending on the experimental model and method of regulating miR-92a.	Cell Survival;Down-Regulation;Endothelial Cells/ cytology/metabolism;Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells;Humans;Hydrogen Peroxide/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Neovascularization, Physiologic;Oxidative Stress;PTEN Phosphohydrolase/metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/metabolism;Up-Regulation;Angiogenesis;Apoptosis;microRNA
Regulation of STAT3 by miR-106a is linked to cognitive impairment in ovariectomized mice	M. Zhang, et al.	2013	23399684	MicroRNAs are abundantly expressed in the brain and play an important role in disorders of the brain, including cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease (AD). A growing body of evidence suggests that the janus kinase/signal transducer and activator of transcription (JAK/STAT) signaling pathway plays a key role in the pathogenesis of AD. However, it is unclear whether miRNAs are involved in this process. Therefore, we characterized the expression and role of miR-106a and JAK/STAT signaling in an ovariectomized (OVX) mouse model of cognitive impairment. Cognitive impairment, as indicated by escape latency and time spent in the platform quadrant in the Morris water maze test, was significantly reduced at 12 weeks post-OVX, compared to age-matched controls. Quantitative real-time PCR and Western blotting demonstrated that miR-106a was upregulated, and STAT3 and phospho-STAT3 were downregulated in the hippocampus at 12 weeks post-OVX, compared with age matched controls and the 6 and 8 weeks post-OVX groups. Transfection of human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells with a miR-106a mimic reduced the expression of STAT3 mRNA, compared to control cells transfected with a scrambled mimic. STAT3 and phospho-STAT3 protein expression was upregulated or downregulated by a miR-106a inhibitor or miR-106a mimic, respectively, indicating that miR-106a negatively regulates STAT3. Luciferase reporter gene assays confirmed that miR-106a directly targets the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of STAT3. This study suggests that miR-106a negatively regulates STAT3 activation, and also that miR-106a may provide a marker of onset or potential therapeutic target for cognitive disturbances.	Analysis of Variance;Animals;Body Weight/physiology;Cell Line, Tumor;Cognition Disorders/genetics/ metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/physiology;Humans;Janus Kinase 2/metabolism;Luciferases/genetics/metabolism;Maze Learning;Mice;Mice, Inbred ICR;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neuroblastoma/pathology;Oviducts/physiology;RNA, Messenger/metabolism;STAT3 Transcription Factor/genetics/ metabolism;Time Factors;Transfection
Ten-eleven translocation (Tet) and thymine DNA glycosylase (TDG), components of the demethylation pathway, are direct targets of miRNA-29a	P. Zhang, et al.	2013	23820384	The ten-eleven translocation family of proteins (Tet1/2/3, Tets) converts 5-methylcytosine (5mC) to 5-hydroxymethylcytosine (5hmC), which can be further oxidized and repaired by thymine DNA glycosylase (TDG), to influence gene transcription in embryonic and adult tissues. However the mechanisms of how Tets and TDG levels are regulated are unknown. We show that miR-29 can directly regulate Tet1-3 and TDG mRNA levels through binding to their 3'UTRs. miR-29 mimic decreases global 5hmC levels, a hallmark of Tet activity. Moreover, the mRNA levels for Tet3 and TDG are inversely correlated with the levels of miR-29 in aged mouse aorta implying that aging may affect methylation patterns via miRNA. In summary, our data show that Tets and TDG are direct targets of miR-29 and unravel a novel regulatory role for this miRNA in epigenetic DNA demethylation pathways.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Animals;Cells, Cultured;DNA Methylation/ genetics;DNA-Binding Proteins/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;Dioxygenases/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;Epigenetic Repression/genetics;Gene Targeting/ methods;HEK293 Cells;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/antagonists & inhibitors/ physiology;Mixed Function Oxygenases;Molecular Mimicry/physiology;Oxidation-Reduction;Protein Binding/genetics;Proto-Oncogene Proteins/antagonists & inhibitors/genetics/ metabolism;RNA, Messenger/antagonists & inhibitors/biosynthesis/genetics;Signal Transduction/ genetics;Thymine DNA Glycosylase/antagonists & inhibitors/ biosynthesis/genetics;5hmC;Epigenetics;MicroRNA;Tdg;Tet
Identifying microRNAs involved in degeneration of the organ of corti during age-related hearing loss	Q. Zhang, et al.	2013	23646144	MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a class of short non-coding RNAs that regulate the expression of mRNA targets, are important regulators of cellular senescence and aging. We questioned which miRNAs are involved in age-related degeneration of the organ of Corti (OC), the auditory sensory epithelium that transduces mechanical stimuli to electrical activity in the inner ear. Degeneration of the OC is generally accepted as the main cause of age-related hearing loss (ARHL), a progressive loss of hearing in individuals as they grow older. To determine which miRNAs are involved in the onset and progression of ARHL, miRNA gene expression in the OC of two mouse strains, C57BL/6J and CBA/J, was compared at three different ages using GeneChip miRNA microarray and was validated by real-time PCR. We showed that 111 and 71 miRNAs exhibited differential expression in the C57 and CBA mice, respectively, and that downregulated miRNAs substantially outnumbered upregulated miRNAs during aging. miRNAs that had approximately 2-fold upregulation included members of miR-29 family and miR-34 family, which are known regulators of pro-apoptotic pathways. In contrast, miRNAs that were downregulated by about 2-fold were members of the miR-181 family and miR-183 family, which are known to be important for proliferation and differentiation, respectively. The shift of miRNA expression favoring apoptosis occurred earlier than detectable hearing threshold elevation and hair cell loss. Our study suggests that changes in miRNA expression precede morphological and functional changes, and that upregulation of pro-apoptotic miRNAs and downregulation of miRNAs promoting proliferation and differentiation are both involved in age-related degeneration of the OC.	Aging/genetics;Animals;Auditory Threshold;Cell Count;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Hair Cells, Auditory/cytology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Inbred CBA;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Organ of Corti/ metabolism/ pathology;Presbycusis/ genetics;Reproducibility of Results
Identifying microRNAs involved in aging of the lateral wall of the cochlear duct	Q. Zhang, et al.	2014	25405349	Age-related hearing loss is a progressive sensorineural hearing loss that occurs during aging. Degeneration of the organ of Corti and atrophy of the lateral wall of the cochlear duct (or scala media) in the inner ear are the two primary causes. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a class of short non-coding RNAs that regulate the expression of mRNA/protein targets, are important regulators of cellular senescence and aging. We examined miRNA gene expression profiles in the lateral wall of two mouse strains, along with exploration of the potential targets of those miRNAs that showed dynamic expression during aging. We show that 95 and 60 miRNAs exhibited differential expression in C57 and CBA mice during aging, respectively. A majority of downregulated miRNAs are known to regulate pathways of cell proliferation and differentiation, while all upregulated miRNAs are known regulators in the pro-apoptotic pathways. By using apoptosis-related gene array and bioinformatic approaches to predict miRNA targets, we identify candidate miRNA-regulated genes that regulate apoptosis pathways in the lateral wall of C57 and CBA mice during aging.	Aging/genetics/ physiology;Animals;Cochlear Duct/metabolism/ physiology;Computational Biology;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/genetics/ physiology;Hearing Loss/ physiopathology;In Situ Hybridization;Mice;MicroRNAs/ genetics
Screening of microRNAs associated with Alzheimer's disease using oxidative stress cell model and different strains of senescence accelerated mice	R. Zhang, et al.	2014	24423585	Oxidative stress plays a critical role in the etiology and pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and the molecular mechanisms that control the neuron response to oxidative stress have been extensively studied. However, the effects of oxidative stress on miRNA expression in hippocampal neurons has not been investigated, and little is known about the roles of ROS-modulated miRNAs in cell function as yet. In this study, miRNA microarray technology was used to analyze the expression of miRNAs in the oxidative stressed primary hippocampal neurons, hippocampus of senescence accelerated mouse prone 8 (SAMP8) and prone 10 (SAMP10). The targets of co-regulated microRNAs were also selected for computational prediction using miRWalk software and functional analysis by the DAVID software. In addition, the changes of co-regulated microRNA expression were validated by quantitative real-time PCR. The results of microarray analysis showed that miR-329, miR-193b, miR-20a, miR-296, and miR-130b were all upregulated in H2O2-induced primary hippocampal neurons and different strains of senescence accelerated mice. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis showed that these co-regulated microRNAs may be involved in the regulation of cell growth, apoptosis, signal transmission and cancer development. In which, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway was one of the most significant pathways to be affected by 83 target genes of miR-329, miR-193b, miR-20a miR-296, and miR-130b. The quantitative real-time PCR data confirmed the alterations of the co-upregulated miRNAs. These results suggested that oxidative stress alters the miRNA expression profile of hippocampal neurons, and the deregulated miRNAs might play potential roles in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study provided a strong basis for the future study aiming at contributions of miRNAs induced by oxidative stress in AD.	Aging/ genetics;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics;Animals;Apoptosis/drug effects/physiology;Cell Aging/physiology;Cells, Cultured;Embryo, Mammalian;Gene Expression Profiling;Hippocampus/cytology;Humans;Hydrogen Peroxide/pharmacology;Mice;Mice, Mutant Strains;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neurons/drug effects/ metabolism;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Oxidative Stress/drug effects/ physiology;Signal Transduction/drug effects/physiology;Up-Regulation/drug effects/genetics;Alzheimer disease;Array analysis;Hippocampal neurons;Oxidative stress;Senescence-accelerated mouse;microRNA
MiR-195 dependent roles of mitofusin2 in the mitochondrial dysfunction of hippocampal neurons in SAMP8 mice	R. Zhang, et al.	2016	27693395	Abnormal gene expression, including mRNAs, and microRNAs (miRNA), have been identified in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although mitofusin2 (mfn2) has been found to be down-regulated in the neurons from hippocampus and cortex in AD patients, little is known about its roles and the regulatory mechanisms in the pathogenesis of AD. This study was performed to investigate the roles of mfn2 protein and its upstream regulatory mechanism in the progression of AD using a senescence accelerated mouse prone-8 (SAMP8) model. The results of quantitative real-time PCR and western blot revealed that mfn2 expression displayed a consistent decrease with aging in the hippocampus of SAMP8 than did age-matched SAMR1 mice. The luciferase activity assay combined with mutational analysis confirmed the binding site of miR-195 to the 3' -untranslated region (3'-UTR) of mfn2 mRNA. Furthermore, miR-195 inhibitor or antigomir induced the higher level expression of mfn2 protein in vitro and in vivo. In addition, exogenous expression of miR-195 decreased the mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) of the HT-22 cells by targeting mfn2. In conclusion, these results indicated that deregulation of mfn2 might be involved in mitochondrial dysfunction during the progression of AD, and its decreased expression was regulated at least in part by miR-195 in AD mice. The abnormal expression of miR-195 played a potential role in mitochondrial disorder by targeting mfn2 in hippocampus of SAMP8 mice. Therefore, upregulation of mfn2 protein by inhibiting miR-195 might be a potential new therapeutic strategy for treatment of AD.	Alzheimer's disease (AD);Hippocampus;MicroRNA;Mitofusin 2 (mfn2);SAM mice;miR-195
Improved knee extensor strength with resistance training associates with muscle specific miRNAs in older adults	T. Zhang, et al.	2015	25560803	Regular exercise, particularly resistance training (RT), is the only therapy known to consistently improve muscle strength and quality (force per unit of mass) in older persons, but there is considerable variability in responsiveness to training. Identifying sensitive diagnostic biomarkers of responsiveness to RT may inform the design of a more efficient exercise regimen to improve muscle strength in older adults. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs that regulate gene expression. We quantified six muscle specific miRNAs (miR-1, -133a, -133b, -206, -208b and -499) in both muscle tissue and blood plasma, and their relationship with knee extensor strength in seven older (age=70.5 +/- 2.5 years) adults before and after 5 months of RT. MiRNAs differentially responded to RT; muscle miR-133b decreased, while all plasma miRNAs tended to increase. Percent changes in knee extensor strength with RT showed strong positive correlations with percent changes in muscle miR-133a, -133b, and -206 and with percent changes in plasma and plasma/muscle miR-499 ratio. Baseline level of plasma or plasma/muscle miR-499 ratio further predicts muscle response to RT, while changes in muscle miR-133a, -133b, and -206 may correlate with muscle TNNT1 gene alternative splicing in response to RT. Our results indicate that RT alters muscle specific miRNAs in muscle and plasma, and that these changes account for some of the variation in strength responses to RT in older adults.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alternative Splicing;Body Composition/physiology;Exercise/physiology;Female;Gene Expression Regulation/physiology;Humans;Knee Joint/ physiology;Male;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/blood;Muscle Strength/physiology;Muscle, Skeletal/metabolism/ physiology;Resistance Training/ methods;Troponin T/genetics;Aging;MicroRNA;Resistance training;Skeletal muscle
Circulating MiRNAs as biomarkers of gait speed responses to aerobic exercise training in obese older adults	T. Zhang, et al.	2017	28301325	Gait speed is a useful predictor of adverse outcomes, including incident mobility disability and mortality in older adults. While aerobic exercise training (AEX) is generally an effective therapy to improve gait speed, individual responses are highly variable. Circulating microRNAs (miRNAs) may contribute to inter-individual changes in gait speed with AEX. We examined whether plasma miRNAs are associated with gait speed changes (dGaitSp) in 33 obese older adults (age: 69.3+/-3.6 years, BMI: 34.0+/-3.1 kg/m2, 85% white, 73% women) who performed treadmill walking, 4 days/week for 5 months. Gait speed (baseline: 1.02+/-0.19 m/s; range of response: -0.2 to 0.35 m/s) was assessed using a 400 meter-fast-paced walk test. Using Nanostring technology, 120 out of 800 miRNAs were found to be abundantly expressed in plasma and 4 of these were significantly changed after AEX: miR-376a-5p increased, while miR-16-5p, miR-27a-3p, and miR-28-3p all decreased. In addition, baseline miR-181a-5p levels (r=-0.40, p=0.02) and percent changes in miR-92a-3p (r=-0.44, p=0.009) associated negatively with dGaitSp. Linear regression combined baseline miR-181a-5p and miR-92a-3p levels showed even stronger associations with dGaitSp (r=-0.48, p=0.005). These results suggest that circulating miR-181a-5p and miR-92a-3p may predict and/or regulate AEX-induced gait speed changes in obese older adults.	aerobic exercise;circulating miRNA;gait speed;inter-individual variation;older adults
Amyloid precursor protein regulates neurogenesis by antagonizing miR-574-5p in the developing cerebral cortex	W. Zhang, et al.	2014	24584353	Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a transmembrane glycoprotein proteolytically processed to release amyloid beta, a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease. APP is expressed throughout the developing and mature brain; however, the primary function of this protein is unknown. We previously demonstrated that APP deficiency enhances neurogenesis, but the mechanisms underlying this process are not known. Here we show that APP regulates the expression of microRNAs in the cortex and in neural progenitors, specifically repressing miR-574-5p. We also show that overexpression of miR-574-5p promotes neurogenesis, but reduces the neural progenitor pool. In contrast, the reduced expression of miR-574-5p inhibits neurogenesis and stimulates proliferation in vitro and in utero. We further demonstrate that the inhibition of miR-574-5p in APP-knockout mice rescues the phenotypes associated with APP deficiency in neurogenesis. Taken together, these results reveal a mechanism in which APP regulates the neurogenesis through miRNA-mediated post-transcriptional regulation.	Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/deficiency/genetics/ metabolism;Animals;Blotting, Western;Brain;Cells, Cultured;Cerebral Cortex/ embryology/ metabolism;Female;Immunohistochemistry;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Neurogenesis
The expression of microRNA and microRNA clusters in the aging heart	X. Zhang, et al.	2012	22529925	BACKGROUND: The microRNAs have been implicated in the process of cardiac development, cardiac hypertrophy, and heart failure. However, the impact of adult aging on cardiac expression of miRNA clusters, as well as both miRNA guide (miR) and passenger (miR*) strands has not been well established. METHODS/RESULTS: We explored the expression profile of both miR and miR* in the hearts of young adult versus old mice. We found that 65 miRNAs were differentially expressed in the old versus young adult hearts; approximately half of them were clustered miRNAs that were distributed in 11 miRNA clusters. Each miRNA cluster contained from 2 to as many as 71 miRNA genes. The majority of the clusters displayed similar expression, with most cluster members within a cluster being either increased or decreased together, suggesting that most clusters are likely to be regulated by a common signaling mechanism and that the combined expression of multiple miRNA genes in a cluster could pose an impact on a broad range of targets during aging. We also found age-related changes in the expression of miR*s. The expression of both miR and miR* correlated with that of pri-miRNA transcript over the time course from development and maturation through adult aging. Age-related changes in the expression of Ago1 and Ago2 proteins in the heart were also observed. Transfection assay revealed that both Ago1 and Ago2 synergistically induced miR-21 and miR-21* when the mir-21 plasmid was co-transfected with either. CONCLUSION: The data revealed age-related changes in the expression of pri-miRNA transcript, Argonaut proteins and both miR and miR* strands. The major changes occurred later in life, from middle to old age. It is likely that the expression of miR and miR* is regulated by both pri-miRNA transcription as well as Ago1 and Ago2 proteins during adult aging.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Argonaute Proteins/genetics;Eukaryotic Initiation Factors/genetics;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Multigene Family;Myocardium/ metabolism;Transcription, Genetic
MicroRNA Clusters in the Adult Mouse Heart: Age-Associated Changes	X. Zhang, et al.	2015	26221604	The microRNAs and microRNA clusters have been implicated in normal cardiac development and also disease, including cardiac hypertrophy, cardiomyopathy, heart failure, and arrhythmias. Since a microRNA cluster has from two to dozens of microRNAs, the expression of a microRNA cluster could have a substantial impact on its target genes. In the present study, the configuration and distribution of microRNA clusters in the mouse genome were examined at various inter-microRNA distances. Three important microRNA clusters that are significantly impacted during adult cardiac aging, the miR-17-92, miR-106a-363, and miR-106b-25, were also examined in terms of their genomic location, RNA transcript character, sequence homology, and their relationship with the corresponding microRNA families. Multiple microRNAs derived from the three clusters potentially target various protein components of the cdc42-SRF signaling pathway, which regulates cytoskeleton dynamics associated with cardiac structure and function. The data indicate that aging impacted the expression of both guide and passenger strands of the microRNA clusters; nutrient stress also affected the expression of the three microRNA clusters. The miR-17-92, miR-106a-363, and miR-106b-25 clusters are likely to impact the Cdc42-SRF signaling pathway and thereby affect cardiac morphology and function during pathological conditions and the aging process.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Heart/ growth & development;Heart Failure/ genetics/pathology;Mice;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics;Myocardium/pathology;Protein Kinases/genetics;Signal Transduction;cdc42 GTP-Binding Protein/genetics
miR-124 Regulates the Expression of BACE1 in the Hippocampus Under Chronic Cerebral Hypoperfusion	X. Zhang, et al.	2017	26984601	Chronic cerebral hypoperfusion (CCH) is a high-risk factor of Alzheimer's disease (AD). MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are ideal mediators of hypoxic stress responses to facilitate cellular adaptation to long-term hypoxia. MiR-124 is a kind of nervous system-specific miRNAs, and one of its target genes is beta-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1). In the present study, miR-124 was found to be inhibited all the time from early to late stage of cerebral hypoxia accompanying with the upregulation of BACE1 protein and overproduction of amyloid-beta (Abeta) in the hippocampus from cerebral hypoperfusion rat models. Meanwhile, Abeta could further enhance the expression of BACE1 protein due to the inhibition of miR-124. Thus, miR-124 was the key factor in this hypoxia/Abeta-miR-124-BACE1-Abeta cycle. The activation of EPAC-Rap1 pathway was involved in the inhibition of miR-124 in hippocampus under hypoxia or Abeta insult. Our data suggest that, as an endogenous regulator of BACE1 protein, miR-124 may play a role in AD onset induced by CCH.	Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/ genetics/metabolism;Amyloid beta-Peptides/metabolism;Animals;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/ genetics/metabolism;Brain Ischemia/ genetics/ pathology;Cell Line, Tumor;Chronic Disease;Down-Regulation/genetics;Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factors/metabolism;Hippocampus/ pathology;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Signal Transduction/genetics;Up-Regulation/genetics;rap1 GTP-Binding Proteins/metabolism;Alzheimer's disease;Amyloid-beta;Chronic cerebral hypoperfusion;MicroRNA-124;beta-Site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1
Synergistic effects of the GATA-4-mediated miR-144/451 cluster in protection against simulated ischemia/reperfusion-induced cardiomyocyte death	X. Zhang, et al.	2010	20708014	Among the identified microRNAs (miRs) thus far, ~50% of mammalian miRs are clustered in the genome and transcribed as polycistronic primary transcripts. However, whether clustered miRs mediate non-redundant and cooperative functions remains poorly understood. In this study, we first identified activation of the promoter of miR-144/451 by GATA-4, a critical transcription factor in the heart. Next, we observed that ectopic expression of miR-144 and -451 individually augmented cardiomyocyte survival, which was further improved by overexpression of miR-144/451, compared to control cells in response to simulated ischemia/reperfusion. In contrast, knockdown of endogenous miR-144 and -451 revealed opposite effects. Using luciferase reporter assay and western blot analysis, we also validated that both miR-144 and miR-451 target CUG triplet repeat-binding protein 2 (CUGBP2), a ubiquitously expressed RNA-binding protein, known to interact with COX-2 3'UTR and inhibit its translation. Accordingly, protein levels of CUGBP2 were greatly reduced and COX-2 activity was markedly increased in miR-144-, miR-451-, and miR-144/451-overexpressing cardiomyocytes, compared to GFP cells. Furthermore, inhibition of COX-2 activity by either NS-398 or DUP-697 partially offset protective effects of the miR-144/451 cluster. Together, these data indicate that both partners of the miR-144/451 cluster confer protection against simulated I/R-induced cardiomyocyte death via targeting CUGBP2-COX-2 pathway, at least in part. Thus, both miR-144 and miR-451 may represent new therapeutic agents for the treatment of ischemic heart disease.	Aging/drug effects/pathology;Animals;Base Sequence;Cell Death/drug effects;Cyclooxygenase 2/metabolism;Cyclooxygenase Inhibitors/pharmacology;GATA4 Transcription Factor/ metabolism;Gene Knockdown Techniques;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Sequence Data;Multigene Family;Myocytes, Cardiac/drug effects/enzymology/metabolism/ pathology;RNA-Binding Proteins/genetics;Rats;Reperfusion Injury/enzymology/genetics/pathology/ prevention & control;Up-Regulation/drug effects
The tumor suppressive role of miRNA-370 by targeting FoxM1 in acute myeloid leukemia	X. Zhang, et al.	2012	22900969	BACKGROUND: Recent evidence has accumulated that MicroRNA (miRNA) dysregulation occurs in the majority of human malignancies including acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and may contribute to onco-/leukemo-genesis. METHODS: The expression levels of miR-370 and FoxM1 were assessed in 48 newly diagnosed AML patients, 40 AML patients in 1st complete remission (CR) and 21 healthy controls. Quantitative real-time PCR, western blots, colony formation assay, and beta-Galactosidase ( SA-beta-Gal) staining were used to characterize the changes induced by overexpression or inhibition of miR-370 or FoxM1. RESULTS: We found that the down-regulation of miR-370 expression was a frequent event in both leukemia cell lines and primary leukemic cells from patients with de novo AML. Lower levels of miR-370 expression were found in 37 of 48 leukemic samples from AML patients compared to those in bone marrow cells derived from healthy adult individuals. Ectopic expression of miR-370 in HL60 and K562 cells led to cell growth arrest and senescence. In contrast, depletion of miR-370 expression using RNA interference enhanced the proliferation of those leukemic cells. Mechanistically, miR-370 targets the transcription factor FoxM1, a well established oncogenic factor promoting cell cycle progression. Moreover, when HL60 and K562 cells were treated with 5-aza-2'-deoxycytidine, a DNA methylation inhibitor, miR-370 expression was up-regulated, which indicates epigenetic silencing of miR-370 in leukemic cells. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, miR-370 may function as a tumor suppressor by targeting FoxM1, and the epigenetic silence of miR-370 thus leads to derepression of FoxM1 expression and consequently contributes to AML development and progression.	Adolescent;Adult;Aged;Azacitidine/pharmacology;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Proliferation;Down-Regulation/genetics;Female;Forkhead Box Protein M1;Forkhead Transcription Factors/ genetics/metabolism;Gene Expression Regulation, Leukemic/drug effects;Genes, Tumor Suppressor;HL-60 Cells;Humans;K562 Cells;Leukemia, Myeloid, Acute/ genetics/metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Middle Aged;Young Adult
MicroRNA-21 controls the development of osteoarthritis by targeting GDF-5 in chondrocytes	Y. Zhang, et al.	2014	24577233	Osteoarthritis is a common cause of functional deterioration in older adults and is an immense burden on the aging population. Altered chondrogenesis is the most important pathophysiological process involved in the development of osteoarthritis. However, the molecular mechanism underlying the regulation of chondrogenesis in patients with osteoarthritis requires further elucidation, particularly with respect to the role of microRNAs. MiR-21 expression in cartilage specimens was examined in 10 patients with knee osteoarthritis and 10 traumatic amputees. The effect of miR-21 on chondrogenesis was also investigated in a chondrocyte cell line. The effect of miR-21 on the expression of growth differentiation factor 5 (GDF-5) was further assessed by luciferase reporter assay and western blot. We found that endogenous miR-21 is upregulated in osteoarthritis patients, and overexpression of miR-21 could attenuate the process of chondrogenesis. Furthermore, we identified GDF-5 as the direct target of miR-21 during the regulation of chondrogenesis. Our data suggest that miR-21 has an important role in the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis and is a potential therapeutic target.	Cartilage/metabolism/pathology;Case-Control Studies;Cell Line;Chondrocytes/ metabolism/pathology;Growth Differentiation Factor 5/genetics/ metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Osteoarthritis/ metabolism/pathology;Up-Regulation
MiR-214-3p attenuates cognition defects via the inhibition of autophagy in SAMP8 mouse model of sporadic Alzheimer's disease	Y. Zhang, et al.	2016	27397902	The autophagy process is the major cellular degradation pathway for long-lived proteins and organelles. Dysfunction of autophagy may lead to several neurodegenerative disorders. However, the regulation and function of autophagy in sporadic Alzheimer's disease (SAD) remain unclear. In this study, we established SAMP8 mouse as a suitable SAD model and performed microarray profiling to identify miR-214-3p as a SAD associated microRNA that was downregulated in hippocampal neurons of SAMP8 mice upon the induction of autophagy. Furthermore, decreased miR-214-3p level was detected in cerebrospinal fluid from SAD patients. Overexpression of miR-214-3p in primary neurons from SAMP8 mice inhibited autophagy, demonstrated by decreased levels of LC3betaII and Beclin1, and reduced number of GFP-LC3-positive autophagosome vesicles, and led to increased viability and decreased caspase-mediated apoptosis. Conversely, antagomiR-214-3p promoted autophagy and apoptosis in neurons from SAMP8 mice. Mechanistically, miR-214-3p negatively regulated Atg12 expression by targeting the 3'-untranslated region of Atg12. Treatment of SAMP8 mice with miR-214-3p attenuated neuronal apoptosis and improved behavioral performance. Taken together, these results suggest that miR-214-3p suppresses autophagy and alleviates hippocampal neuron apoptosis, which indicates that miR-214-3p represents a new potential neuroprotective factor for SAD.	Apoptosis;Atg12;Autophagy;Sporadic Alzheimer's disease;miR-214-3p
MiR-299-5p regulates apoptosis through autophagy in neurons and ameliorates cognitive capacity in APPswe/PS1dE9 mice	Y. Zhang, et al.	2016	27080144	Abnormalities of autophagy can result in neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Nevertheless, the regulatory mechanisms of autophagy in AD are not well understood. Here, we describe our findings that microRNA (miR)-299-5p functions as an autophagy inhibitor by suppressing Atg5 and antagonizing caspase-dependent apoptosis. We observed decreased levels of miR-299-5p both in primary neurons under conditions of starvation and in hippocampi of APPswe/PS1dE9 mice. Additionally, low levels of miR-299-5p were observed in cerebrospinal fluid of AD patients. MiR-299-5p treatment resulted in attenuation of Atg5 and autophagy in primary neurons from APPswe/PS1dE9 mice, N2a cells and SH-SY5Y cells, whereas antagomiR-299-5p enhanced autophagy. Atg5 was verified as a direct target of miR-299-5p by dual luciferase reporter assays. Furthermore, transfection of miR-299-5p into primary hippocampal neurons caused the attenuation of caspase-mediated apoptosis, which was reversed upon starvation-induced autophagy. Inhibition of autophagy by shRNA knockdown of LC3beta reduced apoptotic neuron death induced by antagomiR-299-5p. Injection of agomiR-299-5p into the cerebral ventricles of AD mice inhibited both autophagy and apoptosis and also improved the cognitive performance of mice. Overall, our results suggest that miR-299-5p modulates neuron survival programs by regulating autophagy. Thus, miR-299-5p serves as a potential neuroprotective factor in AD.	Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/ genetics;Animals;Apoptosis/ physiology;Autophagy/ physiology;Cell Line;Cognition Disorders/ prevention & control;Hippocampus/pathology;Humans;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Neurons/ cytology;Presenilin-1/ genetics
Targeted MicroRNA Interference Promotes Postnatal Cardiac Cell Cycle Re-Entry	Y. Zhang, et al.	2013	24910852	Mammalian heart cells undergo a marked reduction in proliferative activity shortly after birth, and thereafter grow predominantly by hypertrophy. Our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying cardiac maturation and senescence is based largely on studies at the whole-heart level. Here, we investigate the molecular basis of the acquired quiescence of purified neonatal and adult cardiomyocytes, and use microRNA interference as a novel strategy to promote cardiomyocyte cell cycle re-entry. Expression of cyclins and cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) and positive modulators were down-regulated, while CDK inhibitors and negative cell cycle modulators were up-regulated during postnatal maturation of cardiomyocytes. The expression pattern of microRNAs also changed dramatically, including increases in miR-29a, miR-30a and miR-141. Treatment of neonatal cardiomyocytes with miRNA inhibitors anti-miR-29a, anti-miR-30a, and antimiR-141 resulted in more cycling cells and enhanced expression of Cyclin A2 (CCNA2). Thus, targeted microRNA interference can reactivate postnatal cardiomyocyte proliferation.	Cardiomyocytes;Cell cycle;Cyclins;Western blot;microRNA
MicroRNA-135b has a neuroprotective role via targeting of beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1	Y. Zhang, et al.	2016	27446280	MicroRNAs (miRs) are a class of endogenous small non-coding RNAs that have been revealed to negatively mediate the expression of their target genes at the post-transcriptional level. Recently, particular miRs have demonstrated an involvement in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the specific role of miR-135b in AD has yet to be elucidated. The present study aimed to investigate the neuroprotective role of miR-135b, in addition to its underlying mechanism. Herein, reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction was conducted to determine miR-135b expression levels in the peripheral blood samples of patients with AD and age-matched normal controls. The data of the present study revealed that the expression levels of miR-135b were significantly reduced in the peripheral blood of AD patients compared with normal controls (P<0.01). In vitro MTT analyses identified that the overexpression of miR-135b significantly enhanced the proliferation of hippocampal cells (P<0.01). Furthermore, in vivo analysis using a Y-maze test indicated that injection with miR-135b mimics into the third ventricle of anesthetized SAMP8 mice significantly enhanced their learning and memory capacities (P<0.01). Molecular mechanism investigations identified beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) as a direct target gene of miR-135b, and the latter was identified to negatively mediate the protein expression levels of BACE1 in hippocampal cells, in addition to hippocampal tissues, of SAMP8 mice. Based on the aforementioned findings, we propose that miR-135b has a neuroprotective role via direct targeting of BACE1 and, thus, may be used for the treatment of AD.	Alzheimer's disease;microRNA;neuroprotective;beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1
Age-dependent chromosomal distribution of male-biased genes in Drosophila	Y. E. Zhang, et al.	2010	20798392	We investigated the correlation between the chromosomal location and age distribution of new male-biased genes formed by duplications via DNA intermediates (DNA-level) or by de novo origination in Drosophila. Our genome-wide analysis revealed an excess of young X-linked male-biased genes. The proportion of X-linked male-biased genes then diminishes through time, leading to an autosomal excess of male-biased genes. The switch between X-linked and autosomal enrichment of male-biased genes was also present in the distribution of both protein-coding genes on the D. pseudoobscura neo-X chromosome and microRNA genes of D. melanogaster. These observations revealed that the evolution of male-biased genes is more complicated than the previously detected one-step X-->A gene traffic and the enrichment of the male-biased genes on autosomes. The pattern we detected suggests that the interaction of various evolutionary forces such as the meiotic sex chromosome inactivation (MSCI), faster-X effect, and sexual antagonism in the male germline might have shaped the chromosomal distribution of male-biased genes on different evolutionary time scales.	Age Factors;Aging/ genetics;Animals;Chromosome Mapping/methods;Drosophila/ genetics;Evolution, Molecular;Gene Expression Profiling;Genes, Insect;Genes, X-Linked/ genetics;Insect Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics;Microarray Analysis;Phylogeny;Sex Characteristics;X Chromosome/genetics
Anxiety-like behavior and dysregulation of miR-34a in triple transgenic mice of Alzheimer's disease	Y. L. Zhang, et al.	2016	27424985	OBJECTIVE: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play an important role in the development of the brain and also implicated in the pathogenesis of neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent studies implied that dysregulation of miRNAs is involved in neuropsychiatric disorders such as anxiety disorder in AD. MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study, behavioral experiments such as open field test, elevated plus maze test and light-dark box test were performed to evaluate anxiety-like behaviors in a triple transgenic mouse model of AD (3xTg-AD mice), and Q-PCR was used to measure the change of miR-34a expression. RESULTS: Behavioral tests revealed anxiety-like behaviors in 3xTg-AD mice. Q-PCR assay showed significantly elevated expression of miR-34a in the hippocampus of 3xTg-AD mice compared with the age- and gender-matched wild-type mice. Western-blot analysis showed that the expression of metabotropic glutamate receptor 7 (GRM7) but not fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2), two anxiety disorder-related target genes of miR-34a, was significantly decreased in hippocampus of 3xTg-AD mice compared with the wild-type mice. CONCLUSIONS: We concluded that anxiety-like behavior occurred in 3xTg-AD mice with an involvement of miR-34a/GRM7.	
Downregulation of microRNA-9 in iPSC-derived neurons of FTD/ALS patients with TDP-43 mutations	Z. Zhang, et al.	2013	24143176	Transactive response DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) is a major pathological protein in frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). There are many disease-associated mutations in TDP-43, and several cellular and animal models with ectopic overexpression of mutant TDP-43 have been established. Here we sought to study altered molecular events in FTD and ALS by using induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC) derived patient neurons. We generated multiple iPSC lines from an FTD/ALS patient with the TARDBP A90V mutation and from an unaffected family member who lacked the mutation. After extensive characterization, two to three iPSC lines from each subject were selected, differentiated into postmitotic neurons, and screened for relevant cell-autonomous phenotypes. Patient-derived neurons were more sensitive than control neurons to 100 nM straurosporine but not to other inducers of cellular stress. Three disease-relevant cellular phenotypes were revealed under staurosporine-induced stress. First, TDP-43 was localized in the cytoplasm of a higher percentage of patient neurons than control neurons. Second, the total TDP-43 level was lower in patient neurons with the A90V mutation. Third, the levels of microRNA-9 (miR-9) and its precursor pri-miR-9-2 decreased in patient neurons but not in control neurons. The latter is likely because of reduced TDP-43, as shRNA-mediated TDP-43 knockdown in rodent primary neurons also decreased the pri-miR-9-2 level. The reduction in miR-9 expression was confirmed in human neurons derived from iPSC lines containing the more pathogenic TARDBP M337V mutation, suggesting miR-9 downregulation might be a common pathogenic event in FTD/ALS. These results show that iPSC models of FTD/ALS are useful for revealing stress-dependent cellular defects of human patient neurons containing rare TDP-43 mutations in their native genetic contexts.	Aged;Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/ genetics/pathology;Base Sequence;Cell Differentiation;DNA-Binding Proteins/ genetics;Down-Regulation;Frontotemporal Dementia/ genetics/pathology;Humans;Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells/pathology;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Mutation;Neurons/ metabolism/pathology;Phenotype
MicroRNA-146a acts as a guardian of the quality and longevity of hematopoietic stem cells in mice	J. L. Zhao, et al.	2013	23705069	During inflammation and infection, hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells are stimulated to proliferate and differentiate into mature immune cells, especially of the myeloid lineage. MicroRNA-146a (miR-146a) is a critical negative regulator of inflammation. Deletion of miR-146a produces effects that appear as dysregulated inflammatory hematopoiesis, leading to a decline in the number and quality of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs), excessive myeloproliferation, and, ultimately, to HSC exhaustion and hematopoietic neoplasms. At the cellular level, the defects are attributable to both an intrinsic problem in the miR-146a-deficient HSCs and extrinsic effects of lymphocytes and nonhematopoietic cells. At the molecular level, this involves a molecular axis consisting of miR-146a, signaling protein TRAF6, transcriptional factor NF-kappaB, and cytokine IL-6. This study has identified miR-146a to be a critical regulator of HSC homeostasis during chronic inflammation in mice and provided a molecular connection between chronic inflammation and the development of bone marrow failure and myeloproliferative neoplasms. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.00537.001.	Animals;Cell Aging/ genetics;Hematopoietic Stem Cells/ cytology;Homeostasis;Inflammation/metabolism;Interleukin-6/metabolism;Mice;Mice, Mutant Strains;MicroRNAs/ genetics;NF-kappa B/metabolism;Hsc;Mouse;NF-kappaB;cancer;hematopoiesis;inflammation;microRNA;developing microRNA-based therapeutics. The other authors declare that no;competing interests exist.
Distinct epigenomes in CD4+ T cells of newborns, middle-ages and centenarians	M. Zhao, et al.	2016	27917918	Age-related variations in genes and microRNAs expression and DNA methylation have been reported respectively; however, their interactions during aging are unclear. We therefore investigated alterations in the transcriptomes, miRNAomes and DNA methylomes in the same CD4+T cells from newborn (NB), middle-aged (MA) and long-lived (LL) individuals to elucidate the molecular changes and their interactions. A total 659 genes showed significantly expression changes across NB, MA and LL individuals, in which we identified four age-related co-expression modules with three hub networks of co-expressed genes and non-coding RNAs. Moreover, we identified 9835 differentially methylated regions (DMRs) including 7015 hypermethylated and 2820 hypomethylated DMRs in the NB compared with the MA, and 12,362 DMRs including 4809 hypermethylated and 7553 hypomethylated DMRs in the MA compared with the LL. The integrated analysis revealed a potential relationship between genes transcription and DNA methylation for many age- or immune-related genes, suggesting that DNA methylation-dependent transcription regulation is involved in development and functions of T cells during aging. Our results reveals age-related transcription and methylation changes and their interactions in human T cells from the cradle to the grave. Longitudinal work is required to establish the relationship between identified age-associated genes/DNA methylation and T cells aging phenotypes.	
MicroRNA-34a induces endothelial progenitor cell senescence and impedes its angiogenesis via suppressing silent information regulator 1	T. Zhao, et al.	2010	20424141	Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) play an important role in angiogenesis, which is essential for numerous physiological processes as well as tumor growth. Several microRNAs (miRNAs) have been reported to be involved in angiogenesis. MiR-34a, recently reported as a tumor suppressor, has been found to target silent information regulator 1 (Sirt1), leading to cell cycle arrest or apoptosis. However, the role of miR-34a in EPC-mediated angiogenesis was unknown. The present study tested the hypothesis that miR-34a inhibits EPC-mediated angiogenesis by inducing senescence via suppressing Sirt1. Bone marrow-derived EPCs from adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were used. Results of flow cytometry showed that EPCs after 7 days of culture expressed both stem cell markers CD34 and CD133 and endothelial cell markers VEGFR-2 (flk-1) and VE-cadherin. MiR-34a was expressed in normal EPCs, and overexpression of miR-34a via its mimic transfection significantly increased its expression and impaired in vitro EPC angiogenesis. MiR-34a overexpression led to a significantly increased EPC senescence, paralleled with an approximately 40% Sirt1 reduction. Furthermore, knockdown of Sirt1 by its siRNA resulted in diminished EPC angiogenesis and increased senescence. Finally, overexpression of miR-34a increased the level of Sirt1 effector-acetylated forkhead box O transcription factors 1 (FoxO1), an effect mimicked in EPCs following Sirt1 knockdown. In conclusion, miR-34a impairs EPC-mediated angiogenesis by induction of senescence via inhibiting Sirt1.	AC133 Antigen;Animals;Antigens, CD/analysis/physiology;Antigens, CD34/analysis/physiology;Blotting, Western;Cell Aging/ physiology;Endothelial Cells/cytology/physiology;Forkhead Transcription Factors/analysis/physiology;Gene Expression Regulation;Glycoproteins/analysis/physiology;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ physiology;Neovascularization, Physiologic/ physiology;Nerve Tissue Proteins/analysis/physiology;Peptides/analysis/physiology;RNA/chemistry/genetics;RNA, Small Interfering/administration & dosage/genetics;Rats;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Sirtuin 1/antagonists & inhibitors/ physiology;Stem Cells/cytology/ physiology;Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-2/analysis/physiology
Myocyte Enhancer Factor 2A Regulates Hydrogen Peroxide-Induced Senescence of Vascular Smooth Muscle Cells Via microRNA-143	W. Zhao, et al.	2015	25655189	Myocyte enhancer factor 2A (MEF2A) is involved in vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation, migration, and senescence. MicroRNA-143/145 (miR-143/145), which may be regulated by MEF2A, is known to promote cellular senescence. We hypothesized that MEF2A may promote VSMC senescence via miR-143/145. VSMC senescence was induced by hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), followed by detection using a senescence-associated beta-galactosidase staining kit. The MEF2A protein, mRNA, and miR-143/145 levels in VSMCs were detected using Western blot analysis and SYBR green real-time quantitative PCR, respectively. We further manipulated the expression levels of MEF2A and miR-143 through viral or transient transfection. VSMC proliferation and migration were determined by methylthiazolyldiphenyl-tetrazolium bromide and Millicell chamber, respectively. Both MEF2A and miR-143, but not miRNA-145, were up-regulated in senescent VSMCs. Overexpression of either MEF2A or miR-143 significantly enhanced VSMC senescence, but reduced proliferation and migration. MEF2A knockdown or miR-143 inhibitor suppressed cellular senescence and increased proliferation and migration. We further revealed AKT signaling as a potential miR-143 target, and an induction of miR-143 expression by MEF2A via KLF2. Additionally, overexpression of MEF2A and miR-143 resulted in synergistic effects on promotion of senescence, and MEF2A knockdown and miR-143 reduction by inhibitor had synergistic inhibitory effects. Finally, MEF2A barely promoted VSMC senescence when miR-143 was inhibited, and miR-143 overexpression antagonized the inhibitory effect of MEF2A knockdown on VSMC senescence. Our results revealed a link and interaction between MEF2A and miR-143 and suggested a potential mechanism for MEF2A to regulate H(2)O(2) -induced VSMC senescence.	Cell Aging/drug effects/ genetics;Cell Movement/drug effects;Cell Proliferation/ drug effects;Cells, Cultured;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental/drug effects;Humans;Hydrogen Peroxide/administration & dosage;MEF2 Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis/genetics;Muscle, Smooth, Vascular/drug effects/metabolism;Signal Transduction/drug effects
MicroRNA profile comparison of the corneal endothelia of young and old mice: implications for senescence of the corneal endothelium	X. Zhao, et al.	2013	23946636	PURPOSE: To identify critical microRNAs (miRNAs) that play important roles in regulating the aging of corneal endothelial cells in mice aged 10-13 weeks and 2 years. METHODS: We collected the corneal endothelia from 30 mice aged 10-13 weeks and 30 mice aged 2 years. The samples were pooled into six groups (Y1, Y2, Y3 and S1, S2, S3). Each group comprised corneal endothelia from 10 mice, and these six groups were used for a genome-wide miRNA microarray study. The expression levels of eight selected miRNAs were further validated independently by quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR). Target genes were predicted using a computational approach due to their base-pairing rules between miRNA and messenger RNA target sites. The locations of binding sequences were within the target's 3' untranslated regions (UTR), and the conservation of target binding sequences occurred within related genomes. Additional gene ontology and signaling pathway analyses were performed using bioinformatics tools. RESULTS: Twenty-seven miRNAs (7 upregulated and 20 downregulated) were found to be differentially expressed (fold change >2, p value <0.05) in the corneal endothelia of adult and old mice. The qRT-PCR results confirmed the differential expression of eight miRNAs between the corneal endothelia of adult and old mice. A computational approach demonstrated that the target genes of the differentially expressed miRNAs might be involved in several signaling pathways, including the glutamatergic synapse pathway (p=0.000313), the phosphatidylinositol signaling pathway (p=0.00197), the neurotrophin signaling pathway (p=0.00687), the transforming growth factor-beta signaling pathway (p=0.0143), and oxidative phosphorylation (p=0.0223). CONCLUSIONS: Our study identified miRNAs that are differentially expressed in the corneal endothelium during aging for the first time. We also identified fluctuations in the expression of these specific miRNAs that may be related to age-specific changes. Understanding miRNA expression and interactions in tissues such as the cornea may aid in the understanding of the basic and pathophysiological processes of age-related ocular pathologies.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Cell Aging/ genetics;Computational Biology;Endothelium, Corneal/ metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Expression Regulation, Developmental;Gene Regulatory Networks/genetics;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;Molecular Sequence Annotation;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Reproducibility of Results
Deficiency in the Ubiquitin Conjugating Enzyme UBE2A in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is Linked to Deficits in a Natural Circular miRNA-7 Sponge (circRNA; ciRS-7)	Y. Zhao, et al.	2016	27929395	Our understanding of the highly specialized functions for small non-coding single-stranded RNA (ssRNA) in the transcriptome of the human central nervous system (CNS) continues to evolve. Circular RNAs (circRNAs), a recently discovered class of ssRNA enriched in the brain and retina, are extremely stable and intrinsically resilient to degradation by exonuclease. Conventional methods of ssRNA, microRNA (miRNA), or messenger RNA (mRNA) detection and quantitation requiring free ribonucleotide ends may have considerably underestimated the quantity and significance of CNS circRNA in the CNS. Highly-specific small ssRNAs, such as the ~23 nucleotide (nt) Homo sapien microRNA-7 (hsa-miRNA-7; chr 9q21.32), are not only abundant in the human limbic system but are, in addition, associated with a ~1400 nt circRNA for miRNA-7 (ciRS-7) in the same anatomical region. Structurally, ciRS-7 contains about ~70 tandem anti-miRNA-7 sequences and acts as an endogenous, anti-complementary miRNA-7 "sponge" that attracts, binds, and, hence, quenches, natural miRNA-7 functions. Using a combination of DNA and miRNA array technologies, enhanced LED-Northern and Western blot hybridization, and the magnesium-dependent exoribonuclease and circRNA-sensitive probe RNaseR, here we provide evidence of a significantly misregulated ciRS-7-miRNA-7-UBE2A circuit in sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) neocortex (Brodmann A22) and hippocampal CA1. Deficits in ciRS-7-mediated "sponging events", resulting in excess ambient miRNA-7 appear to drive the selective down-regulation in the expression of miRNA-7-sensitive mRNA targets, such as that encoding the ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2A (UBE2A; chr Xq24). UBE2A, which normally serves as a central effector in the ubiquitin-26S proteasome system, coordinates the clearance of amyloid peptides via proteolysis, is known to be depleted in sporadic AD brain and, hence, contributes to amyloid accumulation and the formation of senile plaque deposits. Dysfunction of circRNA-miRNA-mRNA regulatory systems appears to represent another important layer of epigenetic control over pathogenic gene expression programs in the human CNS that are targeted by the sporadic AD process.	Alzheimer's disease (AD);circular RNA (circRNA);genetic control;miRNA-7;proteasome;proteolysis;ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2A (UBE2A);the design of the study;in the collection, analyses, or interpretation of data;in the writing of the manuscript, and in the decision to publish the results.
Anti-microRNAs as Novel Therapeutic Agents in the Clinical Management of Alzheimer's Disease	Y. Zhao, et al.	2016	26941600	Overview- One hundred and ten years since its first description Alzheimer's disease (AD) still retains its prominent status: (i) as the industrialized world's number one cause of age-related intellectual impairment and cognitive decline; (ii) as this country's most rapidly expanding socioeconomic and healthcare concern; and (iii) as an insidious, progressive and lethal neurological disorder of the human central nervous system (CNS) for which there is currently no adequate treatment or cure (Alzheimer, 1991; Alzheimer et al., 1991, 1995) [https://www.alz.org/facts/downloads/facts_figures_2015.pdf (2015)]. The concept of small non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) as being involved in the etiopathogenesis of AD and age-related human neurodegenerative disease was first proposed about 25 years ago, however it was not until 2007 that specific microRNA (miRNA) abundance, speciation and localization to the hippocampal CA1 region (an anatomical area of the human CNS specifically targeted by the AD process) was shown to strongly associate with AD-type change when compared to age-matched controls (Lukiw et al., 1992; Lukiw, 2007; Schipper et al., 2007; Cogswell et al., 2008; Guerreiro et al., 2012). Currently about 400 reports address the potential link between disruptions in miRNA signaling and the development of various features associated with AD neuropathology (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/?term=micro+RNA+alzheimer's+disease). In this "Perspectives" paper we will highlight some of the most recent literature on anti-miRNA (AM; antagomir) therapeutic strategies and some very recent technological advances in the analysis and characterization of defective miRNA signaling pathways in AD compared to neurologically normal age-matched controls.	Alzheimer's disease;NF-kB;aging;anti-microRNA (AM);human genetic heterogeneity;inflammation;microRNA (miRNA);non-coding RNA
Regulation of TREM2 expression by an NF-small ka, CyrillicB-sensitive miRNA-34a	Y. Zhao, et al.	2013	23462268	Genetic deficits and loss of function for the triggering receptor expressed in myeloid cells 2 (TREM2; encoded at chr6p21.1), a transmembrane spanning stimulatory receptor of the immunoglobulin/lectin-like gene superfamily, have been associated with deficiencies in phagocytosis and the innate immune system in Alzheimer's disease. In this study, we provide evidence that TREM2 is downregulated in samples of sporadic Alzheimer hippocampal CA1 compared with age-matched controls. A nuclear factor-small ka, CyrillicB (NF-small ka, CyrillicB)-sensitive miRNA-34a (encoded at chr1p36.22), upregulated in Alzheimer's disease, was found to target the 299 nucleotide human TREM2 mRNA 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) and downregulate the expression of a TREM2-3'-UTR reporter vector. A stabilized anti-miRNA-34a (AM-34a) quenched this pathogenic response. The results suggest that an epigenetic mechanism involving an NF-small ka, CyrillicB-mediated, miRNA-34a-regulated downregulation of TREM2 expression may shape innate immune and phagocytic responses that contribute to inflammatory neurodegeneration.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Alzheimer Disease/metabolism;Animals;Blotting, Northern;Blotting, Western;Cells, Cultured;Data Interpretation, Statistical;Down-Regulation/drug effects;Epigenesis, Genetic;Hippocampus/cytology/drug effects/metabolism;Inflammation/pathology;Membrane Glycoproteins/biosynthesis/ genetics;Mice;Mice, Inbred C3H;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/ genetics/metabolism;Microglia/metabolism;NF-kappa B/ genetics/physiology;Phagocytosis/physiology;Quality Control;Receptors, Immunologic/biosynthesis/ genetics
Over-Expressed Pathogenic miRNAs in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and Prion Disease (PrD) Drive Deficits in TREM2-Mediated Abeta42 Peptide Clearance	Y. Zhao, et al.	2016	27378912	One prominent and distinguishing feature of progressive, age-related neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and prion disease (PrD) is the gradual accumulation of amyloids into dense, insoluble end-stage protein aggregates. These polymorphic proteolipid lesions are known to contribute to immunogenic and inflammatory pathology in these insidious and fatal disorders of the human central nervous system (CNS). For example, the evolution of self-aggregating amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides, such as the 42 amino acid Abeta42 peptide monomer into higher order aggregates are largely due to: (1) the inability of natural processes to clear them from the cellular environment; and/or (2) the overproduction of these amyloid monomers which rapidly mature into higher order oligomers, fibrils and insoluble, end-stage senile plaques. Cells of the CNS such as microglial (MG) cells have evolved essential homeostatic mechanisms to clear Abeta peptides to avoid their accumulation, however, when defective, these clearance mechanisms become overwhelmed and excessive deposition and aggregation of these amyloids result. This 'Perspectives' paper will highlight some emerging concepts on the up-regulation of an inducible microRNA-34a in AD and PrD that drives the down-regulation of the amyloid sensing- and clearance receptor protein TREM2 (the triggering receptor expressed in myeloid/microglial cells). The impairment of this inducible, miRNA-34a-regulated TREM2- and MG-cell based amyloid clearance mechanism may thereby contribute to the age-related amyloidogenesis associated with both AD and PrD.	42 amino acid amyloid-beta (Abeta42) peptides;Alzheimer's disease (AD);Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD);Gerstmann-Straussler-Scheinker syndrome (GSS);microRNA-34a;microglial cells;phagocytosis;triggering receptor expressed in myeloid/microglial cells (TREM2)
Glycyrrhizic acid, active component from Glycyrrhizae radix, prevents toxicity of graphene oxide by influencing functions of microRNAs in nematode Caenorhabditis elegans	Y. Zhao, et al.	2016	26552872	UNLABELLED: We investigated effects of pretreatment with Glycyrrhizae radix (GR) or its specific components on toxicity of graphene oxide (GO) in Caenorhabditis elegans. GR pretreatment prevented GO toxicity on function of both primary and secondary targeted organs. Among active components in GR, the beneficial effects of GR were attributable to presence of glycyrrhizic acid. Glycyrrhizic acid pretreatment suppressed translocation of GO into secondary targeted organs through intestinal barrier. Glycyrrhizic acid pretreatment recovered expression patterns of dysregulated microRNAs (miRNAs) induced by GO, and genes required for oxidative stress control acted as targeted genes for some of these miRNAs. Among these miRNAs, mir-360 mutation enhanced beneficial effects of glycyrrhizic acid. We hypothesize that glycyrrhizic acid may prevent GO toxicity and translocation by influencing functions of miRNAs which upstream regulate functions of their targeted genes. Furthermore, glycyrrhizic acid had potential to extend lifespan, and to suppress accelerated aging process induced by GO. FROM THE CLINICAL EDITOR: Exposure to graphene oxide may pose toxic effects to health, as suggested in animal studies. In this article, the authors showed that the use of glycyrrhizae radix (GR) prevented toxicity of graphene oxide in Caenorhabditis elegans. These results may provide novel strategies in the reducing potential side effects of nanoparticles.	Aging/drug effects;Animals;Caenorhabditis elegans/ drug effects/genetics/physiology;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;Glycyrrhiza/chemistry;Glycyrrhizic Acid/chemistry/ pharmacology;Graphite/ toxicity;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Oxidative Stress/drug effects;Oxides/ toxicity;Plant Extracts/chemistry/ pharmacology;Protective Agents/chemistry/ pharmacology;Caenorhabditis elegans;Glycyrrhizae radix;Glycyrrhizic acid;Graphene oxide;MicroRNAs;Nanotoxicity;Prevention
rs78378222 polymorphism in the 3'-untranslated region of TP53 contributes to development of age-associated cataracts by modifying microRNA-125b-induced apoptosis of lens epithelial cells	Y. Zhao, et al.	2016	27431420	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) negatively regulate the expression of the target genes by binding to 'seed sequences' in the 3'untranslated region (3'UTR) mRNA transcripts, and the variants within or nearby 'seed sequences' may compromise or enhance miRNA/mRNA interaction leading to either 'lossoffunction' or 'gainoffunction' effects. Cataracts are the leading cause of blindness worldwide and are characterized by progressive aggregation and precipitation of lens proteins, and the development of agerelated cataracts is associated with dysregulated cellular activities of lens epithelial cells. Luciferase assays and online miRNA databases were used to validate that tumor protein p53 (TP53) is the target gene of miR125b. Furthermore, reverse transcriptionquantitative polymerase chain reaction and western blotting were conducted to detect expression levels of miR125b and TP53 in different groups of cells transfected with miR125b mimics or inhibitors. In addition, flow cytometry analysis and the MTT assay were conducted to detect the effects of miR125b on apoptosis and cell viability. The current study demonstrated that the rs78378222 polymorphism minor allele introduces a novel potential miR125b binding site in the TP53 3'UTR with a consecutive 8bp perfect match, creating a 'gainoffunction' variant and affecting the regulation of TP53 expression. A luciferase assay demonstrated that transfection of lens epithelial cells with wild type TP53 3'UTR significantly reduced the luciferase activity of the miR125b overexpressing cells compared with scramble controls. In addition, the luciferase activity of miR125b overexpressing cells transfected with the construct containing the rs78378222 polymorphism minor allele was also reduced compared with cells transfected with the wild type 3'UTR. Furthermore, it was demonstrated that the expression level of miR125 was comparable in epithelial cells from patients with ageassociated cataracts and controls, whereas the expression level of TP53 was significantly higher in the cataract group compared with controls. Additionally, transfection with 50 nM miR125b mimics markedly reduced the mRNA and protein expression levels of TP53 in the cultured lens epithelial cells, and miR125b significantly induced apoptosis in the epithelial cells compared with negative control cells. In conclusion, TP53 was identified as a target of miR125b, and the minor allele of the rs78378222 polymorphism promoted the miR-125b/TP53 mRNA interaction.	3' Untranslated Regions;Aging/genetics;Alleles;Apoptosis/ genetics;Base Sequence;Binding Sites;Cataract/ etiology;Epithelial Cells/metabolism;Gene Expression;Genetic Association Studies;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Polymorphism, Single Nucleotide;RNA Interference;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/ genetics
TREM2 signaling, miRNA-34a and the extinction of phagocytosis	Y. Zhao and W. J. Lukiw	2013	24009555		NF-kappaB;Trem2;alzheimer's disease;anti-miRNA;inflammation;miRNA-34a;micro RNA;phagocytosis
MicroRNA (miRNA) Signaling in the Human CNS in Sporadic Alzheimer's Disease (AD)-Novel and Unique Pathological Features	Y. Zhao, et al.	2015	26694372	Of the approximately ~2.65 x 10(3) mature microRNAs (miRNAs) so far identified in Homo sapiens, only a surprisingly small but select subset-about 35-40-are highly abundant in the human central nervous system (CNS). This fact alone underscores the extremely high selection pressure for the human CNS to utilize only specific ribonucleotide sequences contained within these single-stranded non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) for productive miRNA-mRNA interactions and the down-regulation of gene expression. In this article we will: (i) consolidate some of our still evolving ideas concerning the role of miRNAs in the CNS in normal aging and in health, and in sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related forms of chronic neurodegeneration; and (ii) highlight certain aspects of the most current work in this research field, with particular emphasis on the findings from our lab of a small pathogenic family of six inducible, pro-inflammatory, NF-kappaB-regulated miRNAs including miRNA-7, miRNA-9, miRNA-34a, miRNA-125b, miRNA-146a and miRNA-155. This group of six CNS-abundant miRNAs significantly up-regulated in sporadic AD are emerging as what appear to be key mechanistic contributors to the sporadic AD process and can explain much of the neuropathology of this common, age-related inflammatory neurodegeneration of the human CNS.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics;Alzheimer Disease/ genetics/ pathology;Central Nervous System/ metabolism/ pathology;Down-Regulation/genetics;Humans;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;NF-kappa B/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Selection, Genetic;Signal Transduction/ genetics;Up-Regulation/genetics;Abeta42 peptide;age-related macular degeneration (AMD);amyloid clearance;heterogeneity of the disease process;inflammation;innate-immune response;miRNA-125b;miRNA-146a;miRNA-155;miRNA-34a;miRNA-7;miRNA-9;microRNA (miRNA);normal aging;prion disease;sporadic AD
Identification of Biomarkers Associated With Alzheimer's Disease by Bioinformatics Analysis	Y. Zhao, et al.	2016	26082458	BACKGROUND: This study aimed to explore the biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD). METHODS: The microarray data of GSE16759 were from the expression profile samples of 4 parietal lobe tissues from patients with AD and 4 ones from age-matched control participants. The differentially expressed micro RNAs (miRNAs) and genes (DEGs) underwent hierarchical clustering and function analysis followed by target genes prediction. Finally, DEGs were mapped to the target genes to construct miRNA-regulated networks. RESULTS: A total of 427 DEGs were obtained and clustered into 5 functions. After DEGs were mapped to the predicted target genes, 313 regulatory pairs were established. The target genes SEC22 vesicle trafficking protein homolog B (SEC22B) and SEC63 homolog (SEC63) regulated by miRNA-206, RAB10, member RAS oncogene family (RAB10) regulated by miRNA-655, and fms-related tyrosine kinase 1 (FLT1) regulated by miRNA-30e-3p and miRNA-369-3p were involved in the biological processes of protein transport and regulation of cell motion. CONCLUSION: The target genes SEC22B, RAB10, and FLT1 may be potential biomarkers of AD.	Alzheimer Disease/ genetics;Biomarkers;Computational Biology/ methods;Gene Regulatory Networks;Genetic Markers;Humans;Membrane Proteins/ genetics;MicroRNAs/genetics;Parietal Lobe;R-SNARE Proteins/ genetics;rab GTP-Binding Proteins/ genetics;Alzheimer's disease;differentially expressed genes;functional cluster;micro RNA;regulatory network;target genes
Down-regulation of Dicer1 promotes cellular senescence and decreases the differentiation and stem cell-supporting capacities of mesenchymal stromal cells in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome	Y. Zhao, et al.	2015	25361944	Although it has been reported that mesenchymal stromal cells are unable to provide sufficient hematopoietic support in myelodysplastic syndrome, the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. In this study, we found that mesenchymal stromal cells from patients with myelodysplastic syndrome displayed a significant increase in senescence, as evidenced by their decreased proliferative capacity, flattened morphology and increased expression of SA-beta-gal and p21. Senescent mesenchymal stromal cells from patients had decreased differentiation potential and decreased stem cell support capacity. Gene knockdown of Dicer1, which was down-regulated in mesenchymal stromal cells from patients, induced senescence. The differentiation and stem cell-supporting capacities were significantly inhibited by Dicer1 knockdown. Overexpression of Dicer1 in mesenchymal stromal cells from patients reversed cellular senescence and enhanced stem cell properties. Furthermore, we identified reduced expression in the microRNA-17 family (miR-17-5p, miR-20a/b, miR-106a/b and miR-93) as a potential factor responsible for increased p21 expression, a key senescence mediator, in Dicer1 knockdown cells. Moreover, we found that miR-93 and miR-20a expression levels were significantly reduced in mesenchymal stromal cells from patients and miR-93/miR-20a gain of function resulted in a decrease of cellular senescence. Collectively, the results of our study show that mesenchymal stromal cells from patients with myelodysplastic syndrome are prone to senescence and that Dicer1 down-regulation promotes cellular senescence and decreases the differentiation and stem cell-supporting capacities of mesenchymal stromal cells. Dicer1 down-regulation seems to contribute to the insufficient hematopoietic support capacities of mesenchymal stromal cells from patients with myelodysplastic syndrome.	Adult;Aged;Apoptosis;Blotting, Western;Case-Control Studies;Cell Aging;Cell Differentiation;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Female;Humans;Male;Mesenchymal Stromal Cells/metabolism/ pathology;Middle Aged;Myelodysplastic Syndromes/genetics/metabolism/ pathology;RNA, Messenger/genetics;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Stem Cells/metabolism/ pathology
Resveratrol improves learning and memory in normally aged mice through microRNA-CREB pathway	Y. N. Zhao, et al.	2013	23685142	Resveratrol (RSV) is a natural compound found in grapes and red wine. It has been well known for its beneficial effects as a dietary supplement in prevention of cardiovascular diseases and cancer. Recently, in vitro studies have reported the neuroprotective role of RSV in neurodegenerative process in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, in vivo effects of RSV on the decline of brain function accompanying the aging process, especially those on cognitive loss, have not been not investigated. Here we report that, after intraventricular injection of RSV for one week in 8-9 month-old mice, the long-term memory formation and the LTP induction from hippocampus CA1 were improved. The RSV enhancement effects were blocked in SIRT1 mutant mice. Additional experiments suggest that RSV effects are likely to be mediated through reduced expressions of miR-134 and miR-124, which may in turn up-regulate CREB levels to subsequently promote BDNF synthesis. These findings demonstrate a role for RSV in cognition and a microRNA-CREB-BDNF mechanism by which RSV regulates these processes, demonstrating its value as a potential therapeutic target against CNS disorders in aging.	Aging/drug effects/ physiology;Animals;Cyclic AMP Response Element-Binding Protein/ metabolism;Hippocampus/drug effects/ physiology;Learning/drug effects/ physiology;Memory/drug effects/ physiology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Signal Transduction/drug effects/physiology;Stilbenes/ pharmacology
MicroRNA-922 promotes tau phosphorylation by downregulating ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCHL1) expression in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease	Z. B. Zhao, et al.	2014	24950120	Decreased levels of soluble ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCHL1) have been reported in the brains of sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, and the introduction of UCHL1 rescued the synaptic and cognitive function of AD model mice. Obviously, a reduction in the levels of UCHL1 may play a role in the pathogenesis of AD. However, the mechanisms underlying the regulation of UCHL1 levels in AD have not been fully elucidated. MicroRNAs (miRs) have been shown to participate in the process of AD. In our study, we discovered that microRNA-922 decreased the levels of UCHL1. Neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) mainly consisting of the hyperphosphorylated microtubule-associated protein tau are the defining pathological features of AD. In the present study, we found the levels of UCHL1 affected the levels of phosphorylated tau: the phosphorylated tau levels increased after knockdown of UCHL1 expression, and the phosphorylated tau levels decreased when UCHL1 was overexpressed. Furthermore, overexpression of microRNA-922 increased the phosphorylated tau levels. In conclusion, miR-922 increasing the levels of phosphorylated tau by regulating UCHL1 levels contributed to the pathogenesis of AD. Our study partly explained one of the mechanisms underlying the downregulation of UCHL1 levels in AD patients and could enrich the content of tau pathology in the pathogenesis of AD.	Alzheimer Disease/ metabolism;Animals;Brain/metabolism;Down-Regulation;HEK293 Cells;Humans;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Phosphorylation;Ubiquitin Thiolesterase/ metabolism;tau Proteins/ metabolism;Alzheimer's disease;Uchl1;miR-922;phosphorylated tau
miR-200c-SUMOylated KLF4 feedback loop acts as a switch in transcriptional programs that control VSMC proliferation	B. Zheng, et al.	2015	25791170	The regulation of vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) proliferation is an important issue because it has major implications for the prevention of pathological vascular conditions. Using microRNA array screen, we found the expression levels of 200 unique miRNAs in hyperplasic tissues. Among them, miR-200c expression substantially was down-regulated. The objective of this work was to assess the function of miR-200c and SUMOylated Krupsilonppel-like transcription factor 4 (KLF4) in the regulation of VSMC proliferation in both cultured cells and animal models of balloon injury. Under basal conditions, we found that miR-200c inhibited the expression of KLF4 and the SUMO-conjugating enzyme Ubc9. Upon PDGF-BB treatment, Ubc9 interacted with and promoted the SUMOylation of KLF4, which allowed the recruitment of transcriptional corepressors (e.g., nuclear receptor corepressor (NCoR) and HDAC2) to the miR-200c promoter. The reduction in miR-200c levels led to increased target gene expression (e.g., Ubc9 and KLF4), which further repressed miR-200c levels and accelerated VSMC proliferation. These results demonstrate that induction of a miR-200c-SUMOylated KLF4 feedback loop is a significant aspect of the PDGF-BB proliferative response in VSMCs and that targeting Ubc9 represents a novel approach for the prevention of restenosis.	Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Co-Repressor Proteins/metabolism;Down-Regulation;Gene Expression Regulation;Histone Deacetylase 2/metabolism;Histone Demethylases/metabolism;Humans;Hyperplasia;Kruppel-Like Transcription Factors/ genetics/ metabolism;MAP Kinase Signaling System/drug effects;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Models, Biological;Muscle, Smooth, Vascular/ metabolism/pathology;Myocytes, Smooth Muscle/ metabolism;Promoter Regions, Genetic;Protein Binding;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-sis/pharmacology;RNA Interference;Serum Response Factor/genetics;Sumoylation/drug effects;Transcription, Genetic;Ubiquitin-Conjugating Enzymes/genetics;Klf4;Proliferation;SUMOylation;Ubc9;Vsmc;miR-200c
MicroRNA-511 Binds to FKBP5 mRNA, Which Encodes a Chaperone Protein, and Regulates Neuronal Differentiation	D. Zheng, et al.	2016	27334923	Single nucleotide polymorphisms in the FKBP5 gene increase the expression of the FKBP51 protein and have been associated with increased risk for neuropsychiatric disorders such as major depression and post-traumatic stress disorder. Moreover, levels of FKBP51 are increased with aging and in Alzheimer disease, potentially contributing to disease pathogenesis. However, aside from its glucocorticoid responsiveness, little is known about what regulates FKBP5 In recent years, non-coding RNAs, and in particular microRNAs, have been shown to modulate disease-related genes and processes. The current study sought to investigate which miRNAs could target and functionally regulate FKBP5 Following in silico data mining and initial target expression validation, miR-511 was found to suppress FKBP5 mRNA and protein levels. Using luciferase p-miR-Report constructs and RNA pulldown assays, we confirmed that miR-511 bound directly to the 3'-UTR of FKBP5, validating the predicted gene-microRNA interaction. miR-511 suppressed glucocorticoid-induced up-regulation of FKBP51 in cells and primary neurons, demonstrating functional, disease-relevant control of the protein. Consistent with a regulator of FKBP5, miR-511 expression in the mouse brain decreased with age but increased following chronic glucocorticoid treatment. Analysis of the predicted target genes of miR-511 revealed that neurogenesis, neuronal development, and neuronal differentiation were likely controlled by these genes. Accordingly, miR-511 increased neuronal differentiation in cells and enhanced neuronal development in primary neurons. Collectively, these findings show that miR-511 is a functional regulator of FKBP5 and can contribute to neuronal differentiation.	3' Untranslated Regions/ physiology;Animals;Brain/ metabolism;Cell Differentiation/ physiology;Gene Expression Regulation/ physiology;HeLa Cells;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Molecular Chaperones/ biosynthesis/genetics;Neurogenesis/ physiology;Neurons/ metabolism;Tacrolimus Binding Proteins/ biosynthesis/genetics;Fkbp5;depression;glucocorticoid;microRNA (miRNA);neurodifferentiation;stress
MiR-219 Protects Against Seizure in the Kainic Acid Model of Epilepsy	H. Zheng, et al.	2016	25394384	Emerging evidence indicates that certain microRNAs (miRNAs) play important roles in epileptogenesis. MiR-219 is a brain-specific miRNA and has been shown to negatively regulate the function of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors by targeting Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII)gamma. Herein, we found that the level of miR-219 was decreased in both the kainic acid (KA)-induced epilepsy model and in cerebrospinal fluid specimens of epilepsy patients. Importantly, silencing of miR-219 by its antagomir in vivo resulted in seizure behaviors, abnormal cortical electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings in the form of high-amplitude and high-frequency discharges, and increased levels of CaMKIIgamma and an NMDA receptor component, NR1, in a pattern similar to that found in KA-treated mice. Moreover, treatments with the miR-219 agomir in vivo alleviated seizures, abnormal EEG recordings, and decreased levels of CaMKIIgamma and NR1 in KA-treated mice. Furthermore, treatment with MK-801, an antagonist of NMDA receptors, significantly alleviated abnormal EEG recordings induced by miR-219 antagomir. Together, these results demonstrate that miR-219 plays a crucial role in suppressing seizure formation in experimental models of epilepsy through modulating the CaMKII/NMDA receptor pathway and that miR-219 supplement may be a potential anabolic strategy for ameliorating epilepsy.	Adolescent;Adult;Animals;Brain/ metabolism;Calcium-Calmodulin-Dependent Protein Kinase Type 2/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Female;Humans;Male;Mice;MicroRNAs/cerebrospinal fluid/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Neurons/ metabolism;Receptors, N-Methyl-D-Aspartate/ metabolism;Seizures/ cerebrospinal fluid/diagnosis/metabolism;Young Adult;CaMKIIgamma;Epilepsy;Kainic acid;MiR-219;NMDA receptor
Associations of rs3740677 within GAB2 Gene with LOAD in Chinese Han Population	J. Y. Zheng, et al.	2016	27311772	GRB2-associated binding protein 2 (GAB2) has been identified as a crucial factor in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and ten common variants within GAB2 have been detected to be associated with AD onset risk in genome-wide association studies (GWAS). Here, we first screened a common locus (rs3740677) in 3' UTR of GAB2 sequence which is targeted by the miRNA-185 and initiatively explored the probable associations of rs3740677 with risk for late-onset AD (LOAD) in a large scale case-control study from Chinese Han populations (992 LOAD patients and 1358 healthy subjects). Eventually, the genotype (P = 0.024) and allele (P = 0.008) distribution of rs3740677 showed significant difference between LOAD and control group, and we observed a significant association of T allele in rs3740677 with LOAD risk in multivariate analysis and it decreased the risk for LOAD (dominant: OR = 0.831, 95 % CI = 0.702-0.983, P = 0.031; additive: OR = 0.855, 95 % CI = 0.745-0.983, P = 0.027) adjusted for age, gender, and APOE epsilon4 status. Our study further confirmed the association of GAB2 and AD. However, the absolute and correct association of rs3740677 with AD still required more investigations in diverse regions and ethnics.	Alzheimer's disease;Association study;Gab2;Polymorphism;miRNA-185
MicroRNA-22 induces endothelial progenitor cell senescence by targeting AKT3	Y. Zheng and Z. Xu	2014	25323119	OBJECTIVES: Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) play an important role in postnatal neovascularization. The number and function of EPCs declines as part of aging-associated senescence, thereby potentially contributing to vascular pathologies. Here, we investigated the significance and molecular mechanisms of microRNA-22 (miR-22) governing EPC senescence. METHODS: EPCs were isolated from human circulating mononuclear cells from healthy young and aged volunteers. Cell senescence, proliferation, migration and tube formation ability were detected by SA-beta-gal staining assay, MTT assay, transwell assay and Matrigel-based angiogenesis assay. Gene and protein expression were analyzed by qRT-PCR and Western blot respectively. RESULTS: We found that miR-22 was upregulated in aged EPCs. Overexpression of miR-22 in young EPCs induced cell senescence, decreased proliferation and migration, and impaired angiogenesis in vitro. Conversely, silencing of endogenous miR-22 led to decreased cell senescence, increased proliferation and migration, and improved angiogenesis. AKT3 was identified as a direct target of miR-22, and restoration of AKT3 expression attenuated the effects of miR-22 in young EPCs. CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that miR-22 induces EPC senescence by downregulating AKT3 expression, providing a potential novel target for the reversal of EPC dysfunction in angiogenesis.	Adult;Aged;Aging/genetics;Cell Aging/ genetics;Cell Movement/genetics;Cell Proliferation/genetics;Cells, Cultured;Down-Regulation/genetics;Endothelial Progenitor Cells/ metabolism;Humans;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Neovascularization, Pathologic/genetics;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/ genetics;Up-Regulation/genetics;Young Adult
miRNA-9 expression is upregulated in the spinal cord of G93A-SOD1 transgenic mice	F. Zhou, et al.	2013	24040447	The pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) remains unclear. Accumulating evidence indicates that various miRNAs expressed in a spatially and temporally controlled manner in the nervous system have an important function in the development of neurodegenerative diseases. The present study aimed to determine the expression and cellular distribution of miRNA-9 in the spinal cord of G93A-SOD1 mutant mice at different time points (post-natal 95, 108 and 122 d). miRNA expression was evaluated by microarray analysis; differentially expressed miRNAs were validated by RT-qPCR. The cellular distribution of miRNA-9 was analyzed by in-situ hybridization. Microarray results indicated for the first time that various miRNAs were differentially expressed between the G93A-SOD1 mutant mice and the littermate control mice. miRNA-9 expression was upregulated at 95, 108, and 122 d as validated by microarray analysis, RT-qPCR, and ISH. ISH results also showed that the miRNA-9-positive cells mainly expressed in the cytoplasm were located in the dorsal horn and the ventral horn of the spinal cord. The majority of miRNA-9-positive cells were located in the ventral horn of the gray matter, the locus of neurodegeneration. These results indicated that the differential expression of miRNA-9 may have an important function in the pathogenesis of G93A-SOD1 transgenic mice.	Age Factors;Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis/ enzymology/genetics;Animals;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;Gene Regulatory Networks;Genetic Predisposition to Disease;In Situ Hybridization;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Mutation;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Phenotype;Polymerase Chain Reaction;Spinal Cord/ metabolism;Superoxide Dismutase/genetics/ metabolism;Superoxide Dismutase-1;Time Factors;Up-Regulation;Als;differential expression;miRNA-9
Deregulation of miRNA-181c potentially contributes to the pathogenesis of AD by targeting collapsin response mediator protein 2 in mice	H. Zhou, et al.	2016	27423553	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that is usually accompanied by abnormal gene expression. The 20 to 25 nucleotide (nt) tiny regulators, known as micro ribonucleic acids (miRNAs), have been found to play important roles in the etiology and pathogenesis of various biological processes. The purpose of the current study was to identify the aberrant expression of microRNAs in the hippocampus of an AD mouse model and to investigate its potential role during the progression of AD. The results from microarray analysis showed that several miRNAs were deregulated in the hippocampus tissue of SAMP8 mice compared to SAMR1 mice. Among the deregulated miRNAs, a significant decrease in miR-181c was validated by quantitative real-time PCR. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that miR-181c might be involved in the regulation of axon guidance, MAPK signaling, dorso-ventral axis formation and long-term depression. Moreover, the results of a luciferase activity assay, western blot analysis and immunofluorescent staining showed that over-expression of miR-181c targets the 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of collapsin response mediator protein 2 (crmp2) through its binding sites and down-regulates crmp2 protein abundance at the post-transcriptional level. Taken together, these findings suggested that crmp2 is a target of miR-181c and that the abnormally low expression of miR-181c in the hippocampus of SAMP8 mice could lead to an increase of the crmp2 protein level in AD mice, which might potentially play a role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.	Aging/metabolism;Alzheimer Disease/ metabolism;Animals;Blotting, Western;Disease Models, Animal;Fluorescent Antibody Technique;HEK293 Cells;Hippocampus/metabolism;Humans;Intercellular Signaling Peptides and Proteins/ metabolism;Mice;Mice, Mutant Strains;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Microarray Analysis;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ metabolism;Neurons/metabolism;Real-Time Polymerase Chain Reaction;Alzheimer's disease (AD);Collapsin response mediator protein 2 (crmp2);Hippocampus;MicroRNA;SAM mice;miR-181c
A parallel genome-wide mRNA and microRNA profiling of the frontal cortex of HIV patients with and without HIV-associated dementia shows the role of axon guidance and downstream pathways in HIV-mediated neurodegeneration	L. Zhou, et al.	2012	23190615	BACKGROUND: HIV-associated dementia (HAD) is the most common dementia type in young adults less than 40 years of age. Although the neurotoxins, oxidative/metabolic stress and impaired activity of neurotrophic factors are believed to be underlying reasons for the development of HAD, the genomic basis, which ultimately defines the virus-host interaction and leads to neurologic manifestation of HIV disease is lacking. Therefore, identifying HIV fingerprints on the host gene machinery and its regulation by microRNA holds a great promise and potential for improving our understanding of HAD pathogenesis, its diagnosis and therapy. RESULTS: A parallel profiling of mRNA and miRNA of the frontal cortex autopsies from HIV positive patients with and without dementia was performed using Illumina Human-6 BeadChip and Affymetrix version 1.0 miRNA array, respectively. The gene ontology and pathway analysis of the two data sets showed high concordance between miRNA and mRNAs, revealing significant interference with the host axon guidance and its downstream signalling pathways in HAD brains. Moreover, the differentially expressed (DE) miRNAs identified in this study, in particular miR-137, 153 and 218, based on which most correlations were built cumulatively targeted neurodegeneration related pathways, implying their future potential in diagnosis, prognosis and possible therapies for HIV-mediated and possibly other neurodegenerative diseases. Furthermore, this relationship between DE miRNAs and DE mRNAs was also reflected in correlation analysis using Bayesian networks by splitting-averaging strategy (SA-BNs), which revealed 195 statistically significant correlated miRNA-mRNA pairs according to Pearson's correlation test (P<0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides the first evidence on unambiguous support for intrinsic functional relationship between mRNA and miRNA in the context of HIV-mediated neurodegeneration, which shows that neurologic manifestation in HIV patients possibly occurs through the interference with the host axon guidance and its downstream signalling pathways. These data provide an excellent avenue for the development of new generation of diagnostic/prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic intervention strategies for HIV-associated neurodegeneration.	AIDS Dementia Complex/diagnosis/ genetics/pathology;Adult;Axons/ pathology;Early Diagnosis;Frontal Lobe/ metabolism/pathology/virology;Gene Expression Profiling;Genome, Human/genetics;Genomics;HIV/ physiology;HIV Infections/complications/ genetics/pathology;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Middle Aged;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Signal Transduction/ genetics
Transcriptional and epigenetic responses to mating and aging in Drosophila melanogaster	S. Zhou, et al.	2014	25344338	BACKGROUND: Phenotypic plasticity allows organisms to respond rapidly to changing environmental circumstances, and understanding its genomic basis can yield insights regarding the underlying genes and genetic networks affecting complex phenotypes. Female Drosophila melanogaster undergo dramatic physiological changes mediated by seminal fluid components transferred upon mating, including decreased longevity. Their physiological and behavioral effects have been well characterized, but little is known about resulting changes in regulation of gene expression or the extent to which mating-induced changes in gene expression are the same as those occurring during aging. RESULTS: We assessed genome-wide mRNA, microRNA, and three common histone modifications implicated in gene activation for young and aged virgin and mated female D. melanogaster in a factorial design. We identified phenotypically plastic transcripts and epigenetic modifications associated with mating and aging. We used these data to derive phenotypically plastic regulatory networks associated with mating of young flies, and aging of virgin and mated flies. Many of the mRNAs, microRNAs and epigenetic modifications associated with mating of young flies also occur with age in virgin flies, which may reflect mating-induced accelerated aging. We functionally tested the plastic regulatory networks by overexpressing environmentally sensitive microRNAs. Overexpression resulted in altered expression of ~70% of candidate target genes, and in all cases affected oviposition. CONCLUSIONS: Our results implicate microRNAs as mediators of phenotypic plasticity associated with mating and provide a comprehensive documentation of the genomic and epigenomic changes that accompany mating- and aging-induced physiological changes in female D. melanogaster.	Aging/ genetics;Animals;Behavior, Animal;Drosophila melanogaster/ genetics/ physiology;Epigenesis, Genetic;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Gene Regulatory Networks;Histones/metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/genetics;Oviposition/genetics;Phenotype;Reproduction/genetics;Transcription, Genetic/ physiology
MiR-206-mediated dynamic mechanism of the mammalian circadian clock	W. Zhou, et al.	2011	21902842	BACKGROUND: As a group of highly conserved small non-coding RNAs with a length of 21~23 nucleotides, microRNAs (miRNAs) regulate the gene expression post-transcriptionally by base pairing with the partial or full complementary sequences in target mRNAs, thus resulting in the repression of mRNA translation and the acceleration of mRNA degradation. Recent work has revealed that miRNAs are essential for the development and functioning of the skeletal muscles where they are. In particular, miR-206 has not only been identified as the only miRNA expressed in skeletal muscles, but also exhibited crucial roles in regulation of the muscle development. Although miRNAs are known to regulate various biological processes ranging from development to cancer, much less is known about their role in the dynamic regulation of the mammalian circadian clock. RESULTS: A detailed dynamic model of miR-206-mediated mammalian circadian clock system was developed presently by using Hill-type terms, Michaelis-Menten type and mass action kinetics. Based on a system-theoretic approach, the model accurately predicts both the periodicity and the entrainment of the circadian clock. It also explores the dynamics properties of the oscillations mediated by miR-206 by means of sensitivity analysis and alterations of parameters. Our results show that miR-206 is an important regulator of the circadian clock in skeletal muscle, and thus by study of miR-206 the main features of its mediation on the clock may be captured. Simulations of these processes display that the amplitude and frequency of the oscillation can be significantly altered through the miR-206-mediated control. CONCLUSIONS: MiR-206 has a profound effect on the dynamic mechanism of the mammalian circadian clock, both by control of the amplitude and control or alteration of the frequency to affect the level of the gene expression and to interfere with the temporal sequence of the gene production or delivery. This undoubtedly uncovers a new mechanism for regulation of the circadian clock at a post-transcriptional level and provides important insights into the normal development as well as the pathological conditions of skeletal muscles, such as the aging, chronic disease and cancer.	Animals;Circadian Rhythm/ physiology;Computer Simulation;Gene Expression Regulation/ physiology;Humans;Mammals;MicroRNAs/metabolism/ physiology;Models, Biological;Muscle, Skeletal/metabolism/ physiology;RNA, Messenger/ metabolism
Inter- and intra-combinatorial regulation by transcription factors and microRNAs	Y. Zhou, et al.	2007	17971223	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a novel class of non-coding small RNAs. In mammalian cells, miRNAs repress the translation of messenger RNAs (mRNAs) or degrade mRNAs. miRNAs play important roles in development and differentiation, and they are also implicated in aging, and oncogenesis. Predictions of targets of miRNAs suggest that they may regulate more than one-third of all genes. The overall functions of mammalian miRNAs remain unclear. Combinatorial regulation by transcription factors alone or miRNAs alone offers a wide range of regulatory programs. However, joining transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms enables higher complexity regulatory programs that in turn could give cells evolutionary advantages. Investigating coordinated regulation of genes by miRNAs and transcription factors (TFs) from a statistical standpoint is a first step that may elucidate some of their roles in various biological processes. RESULTS: Here, we studied the nature and scope of coordination among regulators from the transcriptional and miRNA regulatory layers in the human genome. Our findings are based on genome wide statistical assessment of regulatory associations ("interactions") among the sets of predicted targets of miRNAs and sets of putative targets of transcription factors. We found that combinatorial regulation by transcription factor pairs and miRNA pairs is much more abundant than the combinatorial regulation by TF-miRNA pairs. In addition, many of the strongly interacting TF-miRNA pairs involve a subset of master TF regulators that co-regulate genes in coordination with almost any miRNA. Application of standard measures for evaluating the degree of interaction between pairs of regulators show that strongly interacting TF-miRNA, TF-TF or miRNA-miRNA pairs tend to include TFs or miRNAs that regulate very large numbers of genes. To correct for this potential bias we introduced an additional Bayesian measure that incorporates not only how significant an interaction is but also how strong it is. Putative pairs of regulators selected by this procedure are more likely to have biological coordination. Importantly, we found that the probability of a TF-miRNA pair forming feed forward loops with its common target genes (where the miRNA simultaneously suppresses the TF and many of its targets) is increased for strongly interacting TF-miRNA pairs. CONCLUSION: Genes are more likely to be co-regulated by pairs of TFs or pairs of miRNAs than by pairs of TF-miRNA, perhaps due to higher probability of evolutionary duplication events of shorter DNA sequences. Nevertheless, many gene sets are reciprocally regulated by strongly interacting pairs of TF-miRNA, which suggests an effective mechanism to suppress functionally related proteins. Moreover, the particular type of feed forward loop (with two opposing modes where the TF activates its target genes or the miRNA simultaneously suppresses this TF and the TF-miRNA joint target genes) is more prevalent among strongly interacting TF-miRNA pairs. This may be attributed to a process that prevents waste of cellular resources or a mechanism to accelerate mRNA degradation.	Animals;Bayes Theorem;Dogs;Gene Expression Regulation/ physiology;Gene Regulatory Networks/ physiology;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/ physiology;Models, Biological;Pan troglodytes;Rats;Transcription Factors/ physiology
The miR-106b~25 cluster promotes bypass of doxorubicin-induced senescence and increase in motility and invasion by targeting the E-cadherin transcriptional activator EP300	Y. Zhou, et al.	2014	24270410	Resistance to chemotherapeutic treatment, which is indirectly responsible for many cancer deaths, is normally associated with an aggressive phenotype including increased cell motility and acquisition of invasive properties. Here we describe how breast cancer cells overcome doxorubicin-induced senescence and become drug resistant by overexpression of the microRNA (miR)-106b~25 cluster. Although all three miRs in the cluster contribute to the generation of doxorubicin resistance, miR-25 is the major contributor to this phenotype. All three miRs in this cluster target EP300, a transcriptional activator of E-cadherin, resulting in cells acquiring a phenotype characteristic of cells undergoing epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), including an increase in both cell motility and invasion, as well as the ability to proliferate after treatment with doxorubicin. These findings provide a novel drug resistance/EMT regulatory pathway controlled by the miR-106b~25 cluster by targeting a transcriptional activator of E-cadherin.	Breast Neoplasms/ drug therapy/ genetics/metabolism;Cadherins/genetics/metabolism;Cell Aging/drug effects/genetics;Cell Line, Tumor;Cell Movement/drug effects/genetics;Doxorubicin/ pharmacology;Drug Resistance, Neoplasm;E1A-Associated p300 Protein/ genetics/metabolism;Female;Fibroblasts/cytology/drug effects;Humans;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/genetics/ metabolism;Skin/cytology/drug effects;Transfection
Protection of CD4+ T cells from hepatitis C virus infection-associated senescence via DeltaNp63-miR-181a-Sirt1 pathway	Y. Zhou, et al.	2016	27354409	T cell dysfunction has a crucial role in establishing and maintaining viral persistence. We have previously shown a decline in miR-181a, which regulates CD4+ T cell responses via DUSP6 overexpression, in individuals with hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. Here, we describe accelerated T cell senescence in HCV-infected individuals compared with age- and sex-matched healthy subjects. Mechanistic studies revealed that up-regulation of transcription factor DeltaNp63 led to the decline of miR-181a expression, resulting in an overexpression of the antiaging protein Sirt1, in CD4+ T cells from HCV-infected individuals. Either reconstituting miR-181a or silencing DeltaNp63 or Sirt1 expression in CD4+ T cells led to accelerated T cell senescence, as evidenced by an increased senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-gal) expression, shortened telomere length, and decreased EdU incorporation; this suggests that HCV-induced T cell senescence is counterregulated by the DeltaNp63-miR-181a-Sirt1 pathway. An increase of IL-2 production was observed in these senescent CD4+ T cells and was driven by a markedly reduced frequency of Foxp3+ regulatory T (Treg) cells and increased number of Foxp3- effector T (Teff) cells upon manipulating the DeltaNp63-miR-181a-Sirt1 pathway. In conclusion, these findings provide novel mechanistic insights into how HCV uses cellular senescent pathways to regulate T cell functions, revealing new targets for rejuvenating impaired T cell responses during chronic viral infection.	T cell senescence;Sirtuin 1;hepatitis C;microRNA-181a;transcription factor p63
Hydrogen sulfide promotes angiogenesis by downregulating miR-640 via the VEGFR2/mTOR pathway	Y. Zhou, et al.	2016	26879375	We previously found hydrogen sulfide (H2S) to be a new proangiogenic factor. However, the mechanisms underlying the cardiovascular effect of this small gas molecule remain largely unknown. The aim of the present study was to identify the essential microRNAs (miRNAs) involved in the transduction of H2S signals in vascular endothelial cells (ECs). The expression of miR-640 and its signaling elements, vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 (VEGFR2), hypoxia inducible factor 1-alpha (HIF1A), and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), was measured using quantitative PCR and Western blotting. Overexpression and inhibition of miR-640 were performed to clarify their roles in mediating the effect of H2S. In addition, knockdown of VEGFR2, HIF1A, and mTOR was performed using siRNAs, dominant negative mutants, or inhibitors to examine their roles in the transduction of the H2S signals. miR-640 levels decreased in vascular ECs that were treated with H2S, whereas overexpression of miR-640 blunted the proangiogenic effect of H2S. Knockdown of either VEGFR2 or mTOR blunted the downregulation of miR-640 and the proangiogenic effect induced by H2S. In addition, miR-640 bound to the 3'-UTR of HIF1A mRNA and then inhibited the expression of HIF1A. The inhibition could be recovered by treating cells with H2S. Thus we concluded that miR-640 plays a pivotal role in mediating the proangiogenic effect of H2S; H2S acts through downregulation of the expression of miR-640 and increasing the levels of HIF1A through the VEGFR2-mTOR pathway.	3' Untranslated Regions;Angiogenesis Inducing Agents/ pharmacology;Binding Sites;Cell Movement/drug effects;Cell Proliferation/drug effects;Cells, Cultured;Down-Regulation;Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells/ drug effects/enzymology;Humans;Hydrogen Sulfide/ pharmacology;Hypoxia-Inducible Factor 1, alpha Subunit/genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Mutation;Neovascularization, Physiologic/ drug effects;RNA Interference;Signal Transduction/drug effects;TOR Serine-Threonine Kinases/genetics/ metabolism;Transfection;Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-2/genetics/ metabolism;VEGFR2-mTOR pathway;angiogenesis;hydrogen sulfide;miR-640;microRNAs
MicroRNA-7 targets Nod-like receptor protein 3 inflammasome to modulate neuroinflammation in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease	Y. Zhou, et al.	2016	27084336	BACKGROUND: alpha-Synuclein (alpha-Syn), a pathological hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD), has been recognized to induce the production of interleukin-1beta in a process that depends, at least in vitro, on nod-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome in monocytes. However, the role of NLRP3 inflammasome activation in the onset of PD has not yet been fully established. RESULTS: In this study, we showed that NLRP3 inflammasomes were activated in the serum of PD patients and the midbrain of PD model mice. We further clarified that alpha-syn activated the NLRP3 inflammasome through microglial endocytosis and subsequent lysosomal cathepsin B release. Deficiency of caspase-1, an important component of NLRP3 inflammasome, significantly inhibited alpha-syn-induced microglia activation and interleukin-1beta production, which in turn alleviated the reduction of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons treated by microglia medium. Specifically, we demonstrated for the first time that Nlrp3 is a target gene of microRNA-7 (miR-7). Transfection of miR-7 inhibited microglial NLRP3 inflammasome activation whereas anti-miR-7 aggravated inflammasome activation in vitro. Notably, stereotactical injection of miR-7 mimics into mouse striatum attenuated dopaminergic neuron degeneration accompanied by the amelioration of microglial activation in MPTP-induced PD model mice. CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides a direct link between miR-7 and NLRP3 inflammasome-mediated neuroinflammation in the pathogenesis of PD. These findings will give us an insight into the potential of miR-7 and NLRP3 inflammasome in terms of opening up novel therapeutic avenues for PD.	Animals;Carrier Proteins/ metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Dopaminergic Neurons/ metabolism;Inflammasomes/ metabolism;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ genetics;Microglia/metabolism;NLR Family, Pyrin Domain-Containing 3 Protein;Parkinson Disease/metabolism/ pathology;NLRP3 inflammasome;Neuroinflammation;Parkinson's disease;microRNA-7;alpha-Synuclein
The lin-4 gene controls fat accumulation and longevity in Caenorhabditis elegans	C. Zhu, et al.	2010	21614175	Previous studies have determined that lin-4, which was the first miRNA to be discovered, controls the timing of cell fate determination and life span in Caenorhabditis elegans. However, the mechanism of lin-4 involvement in these processes remains poorly understood. Fat storage is an essential aspect of the life cycle of organisms, and the function of lin-4 in fat accumulation is not clear. In this study, we showed that the fat content is reduced remarkably in C. elegans lin-4 mutants. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis revealed a considerable decrease in the levels of SBP-1 and OGA-1 mRNA in lin-4 mutants. We also showed that lin-4 mutants have a significantly shorter life span than wild-type worms. DCF assay experiments showed that the reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels increased and mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) copy number decreased in loss-of-function lin-4 mutants. These mutants also showed attenuation of locomotion. Taken together, our findings suggest that lin-4 may play an important role in regulating fat accumulation and locomotion and that lin-4 may control the life span of C. elegans by mediating ROS production.	Animals;Caenorhabditis elegans/genetics/ metabolism;Caenorhabditis elegans Proteins/genetics/metabolism;DNA, Helminth/genetics/metabolism;DNA, Mitochondrial/genetics/metabolism;Lipid Metabolism/ physiology;Longevity/ physiology;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Mutation;RNA, Helminth/genetics/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Reactive Oxygen Species/metabolism;Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;Caenorhabditis elegans;fat accumulation;life span;lin-4;locomotion
Lin28a transgenic mice manifest size and puberty phenotypes identified in human genetic association studies	H. Zhu, et al.	2010	20512147	Recently, genome-wide association studies have implicated the human LIN28B locus in regulating height and the timing of menarche. LIN28B and its homolog LIN28A are functionally redundant RNA-binding proteins that block biogenesis of let-7 microRNAs. lin-28 and let-7 were discovered in Caenorhabditis elegans as heterochronic regulators of larval and vulval development but have recently been implicated in cancer, stem cell aging and pluripotency. The let-7 targets Myc, Kras, Igf2bp1 and Hmga2 are known regulators of mammalian body size and metabolism. To explore the function of the Lin28-Let-7 pathway in vivo, we engineered transgenic mice to express Lin28a and observed in them increased body size, crown-rump length and delayed onset of puberty. Investigation of metabolic and endocrine mechanisms of overgrowth in these transgenic mice revealed increased glucose metabolism and insulin sensitivity. Here we report a mouse that models the human phenotypes associated with genetic variation in the Lin28-Let-7 pathway.	Animals;Blood Glucose/metabolism;Body Size/genetics/ physiology;Female;Gene Expression Profiling;Genetic Association Studies;Glucose/metabolism;Humans;Insulin/blood;Male;Mice;Mice, Inbred BALB C;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/metabolism;Models, Animal;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Phenotype;RNA-Binding Proteins/genetics/ metabolism;Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction;Sexual Maturation/genetics/ physiology;Time Factors
MicroRNA-195 downregulates Alzheimer's disease amyloid-beta production by targeting BACE1	H. C. Zhu, et al.	2012	22721728	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease, characterized by amyloid-beta (Abeta) deposition and neurofibrillary tangles. Numerous microRNAs have been found to play crucial roles in regulating Abeta production in the process of AD. Previous investigations have reported lower levels of many microRNAs in AD patients and animal models. Here, we examined the role of miR-195 in the process of Abeta formation. Bioinformatics' algorithms predicted miR-195 binding sites within the beta-site APP cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR), and we found the level of miR-195 to be negatively related to the protein level of BACE1 in SAMP8 mice. We confirmed the target site in HEK293 cells by luciferase assay. Overexpression of miR-195 in N2a/WT cells decreased the BACE1 protein level, and inhibition of miR-195 resulted in increase of BACE1 protein level. Furthermore, overexpression of miR-195 in N2a/APP decreased the level of Abeta, while inhibition of miR-195 resulted in an increase of Abeta. Thus, we demonstrated that miR-195 could downregulate the level of Abeta by inhibiting the translation of BACE1. We conclude that miR-195 might provide a therapeutic strategy for AD.	3' Untranslated Regions;Aging, Premature/genetics/metabolism/pathology;Alzheimer Disease/therapy;Amyloid Precursor Protein Secretases/ genetics/physiology;Amyloid beta-Peptides/ biosynthesis;Animals;Aspartic Acid Endopeptidases/ genetics/physiology;Binding Sites;Cell Line, Tumor;Down-Regulation;HEK293 Cells;Hippocampus/metabolism/pathology;Humans;Mice;Mice, Neurologic Mutants;MicroRNAs/biosynthesis/genetics/ physiology;Mutagenesis, Site-Directed;Neuroblastoma/pathology;Protein Biosynthesis;Protein Interaction Mapping;Protein Processing, Post-Translational;RNA Stability;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Recombinant Fusion Proteins/physiology
American ginseng regulates gene expression to protect against premature ovarian failure in rats	L. Zhu, et al.	2015	25705687	Premature ovarian failure (POF) is defined as lost ovarian functions before the age of 40. Three possible molecular markers (PLA2G4A, miR-29a, and miR-144) have been identified in our previous study by integrated analysis of mRNA and miRNA expression profiles. The present study aimed to evaluate American ginseng root's protective potential against POF by studying transcriptional and protein variations between American ginseng treatments and controls in rats. 4-Vinylcyclohexene diepoxide (VCD) was administered to rats for 14 days to induce POF. Additionally, American ginseng was administered to POF rats for one month, and PLA2G4A, miR-29a, and miR-144 expressions were measured in rat ovaries by qRT-PCR. PLA2G4A protein expression was examined by Western Blot, and PGE2, LH, FSH, and E2 serum levels were detected by ELISA. PLA2G4A mRNA and protein were downregulated in American ginseng-treated rats, miR-29a and miR-144 levels increased, and PGE2 serum levels decreased, while LH, FSH, and E2 increased compared to POF induction alone. Analysis of transcriptional and protein variations suggested that American ginseng protects the ovary against POF by regulating prostaglandin biosynthesis, ovulation, and preventing ovarian aging. High hormone levels (PGE2, FSH, and LH) were reduced, and E2 secretion approached normal levels, leading to improved POF symptoms and abnormal ovulation.	Animals;Antigens, CD/blood;Antigens, CD99;Cell Adhesion Molecules/blood;Cyclohexenes/toxicity;Dinoprostone/blood;Female;Follicle Stimulating Hormone, Human/blood;Gene Expression Regulation/drug effects;Humans;Luteinizing Hormone/blood;Panax/ chemistry;Plant Extracts/ administration & dosage/chemistry;Primary Ovarian Insufficiency/blood/chemically induced/ drug therapy/pathology;Rats;Vinyl Compounds/toxicity
Modulation of miR-19 in Aluminum-Induced Neural Cell Apoptosis	M. Zhu, et al.	2016	26836165	Neuronal cell death is an important feature of neurodegeneration. Aluminum is associated with neurodegenerative disorders, particularly Alzheimer's disease. However, the underlying mechanisms by which aluminum induces neuronal apoptosis remain to be elucidated. miR-19 is a key miRNA implicated in regulating cell survival process, while the role of miR-19 in Alzheimer's disease has not been investigated. In the present study, we showed that Aluminum maltolate (Al-malt), a lipophilic Al complex which is a common component of human diet with the ability to facilitate the entry of Al into the brain, induced apoptosis in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells, along with downregulation of miR-19a/miR-19b, upregulation of miR-19-targeted PTEN, and alterations of its downstream apoptosis related proteins including AKT, p53, Bax, and Bcl-2. miR-19 overexpression attenuated Al-malt-induced apoptosis as well as changes in the expression of apoptosis related proteins in SH-SY5Y cells. We further revealed that exposure of rats to Al-malt for 12 weeks at doses relevant to human exposure significantly elevated Al concentrations in serum and brain tissues. Al-malt dose-dependently induced apoptosis in rat brain, as evidenced by increased caspase activation and increased TUNEL staining. Consistent with in vitro results, Al-malt reduced miR-19 expression and altered the expression of apoptotic related proteins in rat brain. Taken together, our data suggest for the first time that miR-19 modulation is critically involved in Al-induced neural cell apoptosis. Findings from this study could provide new insight into the molecular mechanisms of Al-associated neurodegenerative pathogenesis.	Aluminum/ toxicity;Animals;Apoptosis/ physiology;Brain/metabolism/pathology;Cell Line, Tumor;Dose-Response Relationship, Drug;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Neurons/ metabolism/pathology;PTEN Phosphohydrolase/metabolism;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-akt/metabolism;Rats, Sprague-Dawley;Tumor Suppressor Protein p53/metabolism;Aluminum;apoptosis;miR-19;modulation;neurodegenerative diseases
MicroRNA-132 and early growth response-1 in nucleus basalis of Meynert during the course of Alzheimer's disease	Q. B. Zhu, et al.	2016	26792551	The cholinergic nucleus basalis of Meynert, which is important for memory functions, shows neuronal activation ('up-phase') during the early stages of Alzheimer's disease and neurodegeneration ('down-phase') in later stages of Alzheimer's disease. MicroRNA-132 (miR-132) and the transcription factor early growth response-1 (EGR1) were proposed as possible candidate molecules regulating such an up-down activity pattern of the nucleus basalis of Meynert during the course of Alzheimer's disease, as they both show this up-down pattern of expression in the prefrontal cortex during the course of Alzheimer's disease. Not only do these two molecules stimulate synaptic activity and plasticity, they are also involved in Alzheimer's disease pathology and might, in addition, affect cholinergic function. In the nucleus basalis of Meynert, we investigated the expression of miR-132 and EGR1 along the entire course of Alzheimer's disease. Forty-nine post-mortem nucleus basalis of Meynert samples were studied, ranging from non-demented controls (Braak stage = 0) to late Alzheimer's disease patients (Braak stage = VI), and from clinical Reisberg scale 1 to 7. Each Braak stage contained seven samples, that were all well matched for confounding factors, i.e. age (range 58-91), sex, post-mortem delay, cerebrospinal fluid pH (as a measure for agonal state), APOE genotype, clock time of death, tissue fixation time, and tissue storage time. The alterations of these two molecules were studied over the course of Alzheimer's disease in relation to the expression of 4G8-stained amyloid-beta, hyperphosphorylated tau stained by antibody AT8, neuronal fibrillary tangles and neuropil threads stained by silver, and in relation to alterations in choline acetyltransferase. We found that the expression of miR-132 and EGR1 in the nucleus basalis of Meynert was quite stable during the early stages of Alzheimer's disease and decreased significantly only during late Alzheimer's disease stages. In addition, miR-132 and EGR1 showed a significant positive correlation with choline acetyltransferase expression (r = 0.49, P < 0.001 and r = 0.61, P < 0.001), while choline acetyltransferase expression showed a significantly negative correlation with hyperphosphorylated tau (r = -0.33, P = 0.021) but no correlation with 4G8-stained amyloid-beta. From the functional changes of miR-132 and EGR1 along the course of Alzheimer's disease we conclude: (i) that these two molecules may play a role in keeping the cholinergic function intact in early Alzheimer's disease stages; and (ii) that these molecules may contribute to the late neurodegeneration of this cholinergic nucleus.	Aged;Aged, 80 and over;Alzheimer Disease/ metabolism/pathology;Basal Nucleus of Meynert/ metabolism/pathology;Disease Progression;Early Growth Response Protein 1/ biosynthesis;Female;Humans;Male;MicroRNAs/ biosynthesis;Middle Aged;Neurons/metabolism/pathology;Single-Blind Method;Alzheimer's disease;early growth response-1;microRNA-132;nucleus basalis of Meynert
MicroRNA-10A* and MicroRNA-21 modulate endothelial progenitor cell senescence via suppressing high-mobility group A2	S. Zhu, et al.	2013	23072816	RATIONALE: Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) contribute to the regeneration of endothelium. Aging-associated senescence results in reduced number and function of EPCs, potentially contributing to increased cardiac risk, reduced angiogenic capacity, and impaired cardiac repair effectiveness. The mechanisms underlying EPC senescence are unknown. Increasing evidence supports the role of microRNAs in regulating cellular senescence. OBJECTIVE: We aimed to determine whether microRNAs regulated EPC senescence and, if so, what the underlying mechanisms are. METHODS AND RESULTS: To map the microRNA/gene expression signatures of EPC senescence, we performed microRNA profiling and microarray analysis in lineage-negative bone marrow cells from young and aged wild-type and apolipoprotein E-deficient mice. We identified 2 microRNAs, microRNA-10A* (miR-10A*), and miR-21, and their common target gene Hmga2 as critical regulators for EPC senescence. Overexpression of miR-10A* and miR-21 in young EPCs suppressed Hmga2 expression, caused EPC senescence, as evidenced by senescence-associated beta-galactosidase upregulation, decreased self-renewal potential, increased p16(Ink4a)/p19(Arf) expression, and resulted in impaired EPC angiogenesis in vitro and in vivo, resembling EPCs derived from aged mice. In contrast, suppression of miR-10A* and miR-21 in aged EPCs increased Hmga2 expression, rejuvenated EPCs, resulting in decreased senescence-associated beta-galactosidase expression, increased self-renewal potential, decreased p16(Ink4a)/p19(Arf) expression, and improved EPC angiogenesis in vitro and in vivo. Importantly, these phenotypic changes were rescued by miRNA-resistant Hmga2 cDNA overexpression. CONCLUSIONS: miR-10A* and miR-21 regulate EPC senescence via suppressing Hmga2 expression and modulation of microRNAs may represent a potential therapeutic intervention in improving EPC-mediated angiogenesis and vascular repair.	Aging/genetics/metabolism;Animals;Apolipoproteins E/deficiency/genetics;Cell Aging/genetics;Cell Proliferation;Cells, Cultured;Cyclin-Dependent Kinase Inhibitor p16/genetics/metabolism;Disease Models, Animal;Down-Regulation;Endothelial Cells/ metabolism;Gene Expression Profiling/methods;Genotype;HMGB3 Protein/genetics/ metabolism;Hindlimb;Ischemia/genetics/metabolism/physiopathology;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;Mice, Knockout;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Muscle, Skeletal/blood supply;Neovascularization, Physiologic;Oligonucleotide Array Sequence Analysis;Phenotype;Stem Cells/ metabolism;Transfection;beta-Galactosidase/genetics/metabolism
Long intergenic non-protein coding RNA 00858 functions as a competing endogenous RNA for miR-422a to facilitate the cell growth in non-small cell lung cancer	S. P. Zhu, et al.	2017	28177876	The expression of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) is dysregulated in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, the functions and contributions of lncRNAs remain largely unknown. Here, we identified a critical role of long intergenic non-protein coding RNA 00858 (LINC00858) in NSCLC. Ectopic expression of LINC00858 in NSCLC cells promoted cell proliferation and induced cell migration and invasion. Moreover, LINC00858 functioned as a competitive endogenous RNA (ceRNA), effectively becoming sponge for miR-422a and thereby modulating the expression of kallikrein-related peptidase 4 (KLK4). In NSCLC patients, high expression of LINC00858 closely correlated with tumor progression. Thus, targeting the ceRNA network involving LINC00858 may be used as a treatment strategy against NSCLC.	hsa-miRNA-422a (miR-422a);kallikrein-related peptidase 4 (KLK4);long intergenic non-protein coding RNA 00858 (LINC00858);non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC);tumorigenesis
Quantification of microRNA-210 in the cerebrospinal fluid and serum: Implications for Alzheimer's disease	Y. Zhu, et al.	2015	25667669	The aim of the present study was to investigate the potential clinical application of the genetic marker microRNA (miRNA)-210 in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and serum of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). The enrolled patients were divided into the mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and AD groups. Healthy individuals were used as the controls. The mRNA and protein expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in the CSF and serum samples was detected by reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) and western blot analysis, respectively. The expression of miRNA-210 in the CSF and serum was detected by RT-qPCR. The results revealed that the mRNA and protein expression levels of VEGF in the CSF and serum were decreased in the MCI and AD groups compared with those in the control group. The greater the severity of the dementia, the lower the mRNA and protein expression of VEGF. Similar to the trend observed for VEGF, the miRNA-210 expression in the CSF and serum decreased as the severity of the AD increased. miRNA-210 is thus not only indicative of AD pathogenesis, but may also provide novel insights into the prevention and treatment of the disease.	Alzheimer's disease;genetic marker;microRNA-210;vascular endothelial growth factor
A potential role of microRNAs in protein accumulation in cellular senescence analyzed by bioinformatics	Y. Zhu, et al.	2017	28591170	Cellular senescence is an important protective mechanism against cell proliferation and has critical roles in aging and aging-related disease. Recently, one interesting observation is that the protein abundance is higher in senescent cells than that in young cells. So far, some factors were presented to interpret this observation, such as active protein synthesis linked with autophagy, mTOR, and oxidative stress. Here, applying bioinformatic analysis of microRNA profiles in young cells and aging cells, we revealed that globally senescent cells show lower miRNA abundance than that in young cells, suggesting that the repression of protein synthesis by miRNA in senescent cells could be largely attenuated. This finding provides clues that protein accumulation in cellular senescence could be associated with lower miRNA abundance in aging cells.	
miR-195 competes with HuR to modulate stim1 mRNA stability and regulate cell migration	R. Zhuang, et al.	2013	23804758	Stromal interaction molecule 1 (Stim1) functions as a sensor of Ca2+ within stores and plays an essential role in the activation of store-operated Ca2+ entry (SOCE). Although lowering Stim1 levels reduces store-operated Ca2+ entry and inhibits intestinal epithelial repair after wounding, the mechanisms that control Stim1 expression remain unknown. Here, we show that cellular Stim1 abundance is controlled posttranscriptionally via factors that associate with 3'-untranslated region (3'-UTR) of stim1 mRNA. MicroRNA-195 (miR-195) and the RNA-binding protein HuR competed for association with the stim1 3'-UTR and regulated stim1 mRNA decay in opposite directions. Interaction of miR-195 with the stim1 3'-UTR destabilized stim1 mRNA, whereas the stability of stim1 mRNA increased with HuR association. Interestingly, ectopic miR-195 overexpression enhanced stim1 mRNA association with argonaute-containing complexes and increased the colocalization of tagged stim1 RNA with processing bodies (P-bodies); the translocation of stim1 mRNA was abolished by HuR overexpression. Moreover, decreased levels of Stim1 by miR-195 overexpression inhibited cell migration over the denuded area after wounding but was rescued by increasing HuR levels. In sum, Stim1 expression is controlled by two factors competing for influence on stim1 mRNA stability: the mRNA-stabilizing protein HuR and the decay-promoting miR-195.	3' Untranslated Regions;Animals;Cell Line;Cell Movement/ genetics;ELAV Proteins/ metabolism;Epithelial Cells/cytology/metabolism;Membrane Glycoproteins/ genetics/metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;RNA Stability;RNA, Messenger/ metabolism;Rats;Stromal Interaction Molecule 1
Desregulated microRNAs in aging-related heart failure	R. Zhuo, et al.	2014	25009555		cardiac aging;cardiac hypertrophy;cardiac remodeling;heart failure;microRNAs
Sensory Neurodegeneration in Diabetes: Beyond Glucotoxicity	D. W. Zochodne	2016	27133149	Diabetic polyneuropathy in humans is of gradual, sometimes insidious onset, and is more likely to occur if glucose control is poor. Arguments that the disorder arises chiefly from glucose toxicity however ignore the greater complexity of a unique neurodegenerative disorder. For example, sensory neurons regularly thrive in media with levels of glucose at or exceeding those of poorly controlled diabetic persons. Also, all of the linkages between hyperglycemia and neuropathy develop in the setting of altered insulin availability or sensitivity. Insulin itself is recognized as a potent growth, or trophic factor for adult sensory neurons. Low doses of insulin, insufficient to alter blood glucose levels, reverse features of diabetic neurodegeneration in animal models. Insulin resistance, as occurs in diabetic adipose tissue, liver, and muscle, also develops in sensory neurons, offering a mechanism for neurodegeneration in the setting of normal or elevated insulin levels. Other interventions that "shore up" sensory neurons prevent features of diabetic polyneuropathy from developing despite persistent hyperglycemia. More recently evidence has emerged that a series of subtle molecular changes in sensory neurons can be linked to neurodegeneration including epigenetic changes in the control of gene expression. Understanding the new complexity of sensory neuron degeneration may give rise to therapeutic strategies that have a higher chance of success in the clinical trial arena.	Diabetic polyneuropathy;Dorsal root ganglia;Insulin;MicroRNAs;Pten;Regeneration;Sensory neurons
miR-29c regulates NAV3 protein expression in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease	Y. Zong, et al.	2015	26212654	The microRNA-29 family (miRNA-29s) has three mature members, miR-29a, miR-29b and miR-29c, which have been implicated in the regulation of the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The miR-29 family members exhibit differential regulation in various diseases and different subcellular distribution. In the present study, we initially investigated differential expression of miR-29c in the hippocampus and the frontal cortex of the young APPswe/PSDeltaE9 mouse brain, accompanied by inverse expression of neurone navigator 3 (NAV3), a regulator of axon guidance. We observed that miR-29c directly mediated downregulation of NAV3 protein expression in vitro. The mouse NAV3 mRNA has a functional miR-29c binding site in the 3' UTR, which localized in the position between 830-836 bp of 3'UTR region, slightly different from human NAV3 mRNA binding site. These observations suggest that miR-29c may be involved in neurodegenerative processes by regulating NAV3 expression in the young AD mouse.	3' Untranslated Regions/genetics/physiology;Age Factors;Alzheimer Disease/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Amyloid beta-Protein Precursor/genetics;Animals;Brain/ metabolism/pathology;Cell Line, Tumor;Disease Models, Animal;Gene Expression Regulation/ genetics;Green Fluorescent Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Humans;Membrane Proteins/ metabolism;Mice;Mice, Transgenic;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;Mutation/genetics;Nerve Tissue Proteins/ metabolism;Neuroblastoma/pathology;Presenilin-1/genetics;Protein Binding/genetics;RNA, Small Nuclear/genetics/metabolism;APPswe/PSDeltaE9 mice;Alzheimers disease;NAV3 protein;miR-29c;microRNAs
The 3' UTR of FMR1 mRNA is a target of miR-101, miR-129-5p and miR-221: implications for the molecular pathology of FXTAS at the synapse	S. Zongaro, et al.	2013	23390134	While FMR1 is silenced in Fragile X syndrome (FXS) patients carrying the full mutation, its expression is elevated (2-8 fold) in premutated individuals. These people may develop the Fragile X-associated Tremor/Ataxia syndrome (FXTAS), a late onset neurodegenerative disorder characterized by ataxia and parkinsonism. In addition, people carrying the premutation can be affected by a set of neurological and behavioral disorders during young age. Problems of memory have been detected in these patients as well as in the mouse models for FXTAS. To date little is known concerning the metabolism of FMR1 mRNA, notwithstanding the importance of the finely tuned regulation of the expression of this gene. In the present study, we identified three microRNAs that specifically target the 3' UTR of FMR1 and can modulate its expression throughout the brain particularly at the synapse where their expression is very high. The expression level of miR-221 is reduced in synaptosomal preparations of young FXTAS mice suggesting a general deregulation of transcripts located at the synapse of these mice. By transcriptome analysis, we show here a robust deregulation of the expression levels of genes involved in learning, memory and autistic behavior, Parkinson disease and neurodegeneration. These findings suggest the presence of a synaptopathy in these animals. Interestingly, many of those deregulated mRNAs are target of the same microRNAs that modulate the expression of FMR1 at the synapse.	3' Untranslated Regions;Animals;Ataxia/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;COS Cells;Cercopithecus aethiops;Disease Models, Animal;Fragile X Mental Retardation Protein/ biosynthesis/genetics;Fragile X Syndrome/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;HeLa Cells;Humans;Mice;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;NIH 3T3 Cells;Synapses/genetics/ metabolism/pathology;Tremor/genetics/ metabolism/pathology
Association of Reduced Heme Oxygenase-1 with Decreased MicroRNA-196a2 Expression in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells of Patients with Intestinal Behcet's Disease	J. Zou, et al.	2016	27993883	AIMS: To examine the expression of miRNAs and mRNAs of heme oxygenase 1 (HO-1) in patients with active intestinal Behcet's disease (BD). METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were obtained from BD patients with active ileocecal ulcers or from healthy donors. Expression levels of four miRNAs were studied using real-time PCR. The levels of mRNAs of ho-1, bach1, and CD14 were measured by qRT-PCR. Serum levels of cytokines were analyzed by ELISA. RESULTS: Among four miRNAs, only levels of miR-196a2 were significantly decreased from BD patients with active ileocecal ulcers as compared with healthy controls. Moreover, level of mRNA ho-1 expression in PBMCs from patients with BD was reduced. No significant difference on bach1 and CD14 mRNA levels was observed. Levels of IFN-gamma, IL-17, IL-10, IL-1beta, and TNF-alpha were higher in patients with active intestinal BD than those in healthy controls. CONCLUSION: The present results suggest that miR-196a2 expression is decreased in active intestinal BD patients. Down regulated miR-196a2 may be involved in intestinal BD pathogenesis by targeting Bach1/ho-1. Consequently, pro-inflammatory cytokines are closely implicated in the evolution of intestinal BD.	Adult;Basic-Leucine Zipper Transcription Factors/genetics/metabolism;Behcet Syndrome/blood/ enzymology/ genetics;Cytokines/blood;Fanconi Anemia Complementation Group Proteins/genetics/metabolism;Female;Gene Expression Regulation;Heme Oxygenase-1/genetics/ metabolism;Humans;Leukocytes, Mononuclear/ metabolism;Male;MicroRNAs/ genetics/metabolism;RNA, Messenger/genetics/metabolism;Bach1;Behcet's disease (BD);heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1);ileocolonic ulcer;microRNA (miRNA)
H19 Long Noncoding RNA Regulates Intestinal Epithelial Barrier Function via MicroRNA 675 by Interacting with RNA-Binding Protein HuR	T. Zou, et al.	2016	26884465	The disruption of the intestinal epithelial barrier function occurs commonly in various pathologies, but the exact mechanisms responsible are unclear. The H19 long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) regulates the expression of different genes and has been implicated in human genetic disorders and cancer. Here, we report that H19 plays an important role in controlling the intestinal epithelial barrier function by serving as a precursor for microRNA 675 (miR-675). H19 overexpression increased the cellular abundance of miR-675, which in turn destabilized and repressed the translation of mRNAs encoding tight junction protein ZO-1 and adherens junction E-cadherin, resulting in the dysfunction of the epithelial barrier. Increasing the level of the RNA-binding protein HuR in cells overexpressing H19 prevented the stimulation of miR-675 processing from H19, promoted ZO-1 and E-cadherin expression, and restored the epithelial barrier function to a nearly normal level. In contrast, the targeted deletion of HuR in intestinal epithelial cells enhanced miR-675 production in the mucosa and delayed the recovery of the gut barrier function after exposure to mesenteric ischemia/reperfusion. These results indicate that H19 interacts with HuR and regulates the intestinal epithelial barrier function via the H19-encoded miR-675 by altering ZO-1 and E-cadherin expression posttranscriptionally.	Animals;Cadherins/genetics/metabolism;ELAV-Like Protein 1/genetics/ metabolism;Epithelial Cells/metabolism;Humans;Intestinal Mucosa/metabolism/ physiology;Mice, Mutant Strains;MicroRNAs/genetics/ metabolism;RNA Stability;RNA, Long Noncoding/genetics/ metabolism;Stress, Physiological/genetics;Zonula Occludens-1 Protein/genetics/metabolism
JunD enhances miR-29b levels transcriptionally and posttranscriptionally to inhibit proliferation of intestinal epithelial cells	T. Zou, et al.	2015	25788572	Through its actions as component of the activating protein-1 (AP-1) transcription factor, JunD potently represses cell proliferation. Here we report a novel function of JunD in the regulation of microRNA expression in intestinal epithelial cells (IECs). Ectopically expressed JunD specifically increased the expression of primary and mature forms of miR-29b, whereas JunD silencing inhibited miR-29b expression. JunD directly interacted with the miR-29b1 promoter via AP-1-binding sites, whereas mutation of AP-1 sites from the miR-29b1 promoter prevented JunD-mediated transcriptional activation of the miR-29b1 gene. JunD also enhanced formation of the Drosha microprocessor complex, thus further promoting miR-29b biogenesis. Cellular polyamines were found to regulate miR-29b expression by altering JunD abundance, since the increase in miR-29b expression levels in polyamine-deficient cells was abolished by JunD silencing. In addition, miR-29b silencing prevented JunD-induced repression of IEC proliferation. Our findings indicate that JunD activates miR-29b by enhancing its transcription and processing, which contribute to the inhibitory effect of JunD on IEC growth and maintenance of gut epithelium homeostasis.	Animals;Cell Line;Cell Proliferation;Epithelial Cells/cytology/ metabolism;Epithelium;Humans;Intestines/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Protein Biosynthesis;Proto-Oncogene Proteins c-jun/ metabolism;Rats;Transcription, Genetic/physiology;intestinal epithelial cells;microRNAs;transcriptional factors;transcriptional regulation
microRNA-34c is a novel target to treat dementias	A. Zovoilis, et al.	2011	21946562	MicroRNAs are key regulators of transcriptome plasticity and have been implicated with the pathogenesis of brain diseases. Here, we employed massive parallel sequencing and provide, at an unprecedented depth, the complete and quantitative miRNAome of the mouse hippocampus, the prime target of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). Using integrative genetics, we identify miR-34c as a negative constraint of memory consolidation and show that miR-34c levels are elevated in the hippocampus of AD patients and corresponding mouse models. In line with this, targeting miR-34 seed rescues learning ability in these mouse models. Our data suggest that miR-34c could be a marker for the onset of cognitive disturbances linked to AD and indicate that targeting miR-34c could be a suitable therapy.	Aged;Alzheimer Disease/metabolism;Animals;Female;Hippocampus/ metabolism;Humans;Male;Memory Disorders/ metabolism;Mice;Mice, Inbred C57BL;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Transcriptome
Sculpting the maturation, softening and ethylene pathway: the influences of microRNAs on tomato fruits	J. Zuo, et al.	2012	22230737	BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs (miRNAs), a ubiquitous class of short RNAs, play vital roles in physiological and biochemical processes in plants by mediating gene silencing at post-transcriptional (PTGS) level. Tomato is a model system to study molecular basis of fleshy fruit ripening and senescence, ethylene biosynthesis and signal transduction owing to its genetic and molecular tractability. To study the functions of miRNAs in tomato fruit ripening and senescence, and their possible roles in ethylene response, the next generation sequencing method was employed to identify miRNAs in tomato fruit. Bioinformatics and molecular biology approaches were combined to profile the miRNAs expression patterns at three different fruit ripening stages and by exogenous ethylene treatment. RESULTS: In addition to 7 novel miRNA families, 103 conserved miRNAs belonging to 24 families and 10 non-conserved miRNAs matching 9 families were identified in our libraries. The targets of many these miRNAs were predicted to be transcriptional factors. Other targets are known to play roles in the regulation of metabolic processes. Interestingly, some targets were predicted to be involved in fruit ripening and softening, such as Pectate Lyase, beta-galactosidase, while a few others were predicted to be involved in ethylene biosynthesis and signaling pathway, such as ACS, EIN2 and CTR1. The expression patterns of a number of such miRNAs at three ripening stages were confirmed by stem-loop RT-PCR, which showed a strong negative correlation with that of their targets. The regulation of exogenous ethylene on miRNAs expression profiles were analyzed simultaneously, and 3 down-regulated, 5 up-regulated miRNAs were found in this study. CONCLUSIONS: A combination of high throughput sequencing and molecular biology approaches was used to explore the involvement of miRNAs during fruit ripening. Several miRNAs showed differential expression profiles during fruit ripening, and a number of miRNAs were influenced by ethylene treatment. The results suggest the importance of miRNAs in fruit ripening and ethylene response.	Ethylenes/ metabolism;Fruit/metabolism;Lycopersicon esculentum/ genetics/ metabolism;MicroRNAs/ metabolism;Polysaccharide-Lyases/metabolism;RNA, Plant/metabolism;Sequence Analysis, RNA;beta-Galactosidase/metabolism
